Old (71) very experienced runner (first marathon in 1969) here. I currently run with the Forerunner 25.  I am thinking about upgrading to the Forerunner 55 mainly for the better battery life.
Started running a few months after turning 39, just turned 42 this month couldn’t run a mile when I started now I run 4 days a week 5k most days and 10k 3-4 times a month. Had a hard time getting my miles up until I start following a lot of the advice from your channel over the past year. Thanks keep up the great work!!
i’m addicted to these types of videos i spend hours and hours researching what i should buy and sometimes dont even buy what i wanted. but the Forerunner 965 has me checking prices constantly for the last 4 months, seems like an amazing value just out of my budget :(
Robin here (from Belgium)... I started running about 2 years ago and have now signed up for my first ever marathon (Leiden 2024). Sinds starting, I've taken on lots of advice from you guys at the Running Channel - so thanks for that! I'm currently using the Garmin Forerunner 955 to track my runs and gym workouts and have never regretted investing in this watch. Thank you once again for all your advice and tips&tricks regarding running🏃
I got my first Garmin watch earlier this year, the Forerunner 55. A definite upgrade on my Fitbit! And a game changer for my running. Also had the turquoise colour which I’ve received many compliments about 😊
So I have picked up running as a hobby last year.. I started with 5kms without any training & now I completed my 3 half marathons recently. I am not part of any runners group or any training program. I just watch running videos on YouTube & feel inspired to push myself further. I have signed up for my first full marathon in January 2024(Tata Mumbai Marathon) & I plan to prepare for it. I believe any of the forerunner series will be a good fit for me to start with tracking my overall progress.. I am 28 & my ultimate goal is to be fit throughout my life so that I can experience more adventures in life.
Cheers to all  the runners here 👏
I started running in my mind 50's and have used Garmin watches for every step of my journey, gradually upgrading as I got more experienced. I've currently got a 265 which is brilliant. The coaching suggestions and in app coaching has improved my running over the past year. I'm going to tackle my first Ultra next year so an upgrade to the Fenix 7 pro or Enduro would be a real confidence boost.
As a new runner (21) that has gotten into a hybrid athlete split, I think that the forerunner 55 or the venu 3 or the vivo active 5 has more than enough features to elevate both my gym and body building workouts and run training. Not only will it help me make wise recovery decisions, but also help me plan workouts well.
Fénix 7 user here. It’s incredibly useful not only for running, I also use it on my bikes as a head unit mounting it on the handlebars, swim, skiing, everything. As a triathlete doing races where navigation is sometimes needed, it saves me from having to buy a separate GPS only for the bike. Also for trail running, you have a clear map so you never get lost.
Been using the forerunner 55 for the last 3 years and would agree it's perfect for someone beginning their running journey.. looking to upgrade now so thanks for this comprehensive overview of all the options.. would love the Fenix 7 pro
Love The Running Channel! I'm definitely a beginner runner who does it to challenge myself without the expectation of ever being  "the best" at it. I'd love a Garmin I can grow into, and I think the Forerunner 255 would be more than enough for my needs! Having access to features like sleep tracking and body battery would be invaluable! Thank you all for everything you do!
I’m an Apple Watch user and I’ve been thinking of converting for a couple months now. The Forerunner 965 is gorgeous and I think the navigation feature would be seriously game changing for me because I hate planning routes. The training guide also seems like such a cool feature. Def adding to my Christmas list this year!
As a new runner I never knew how amazing today's fitness watches are, I'm really interested in the forerunner 965 as I really enjoy the data you can get from running. The idea of having a wholistic view on how hard you should push yourself on your run is also really interesting to me
Always good to listen to Andy Geeking out about tech. I'm still using an entry-level forerunner but the 965 does look so good.
Started running this year after losing 50+kg and went from a 30+min 5k to 25:58 5k followinging the garmin coach 5k training plan and have been looking to upgrade my Venu 2 to the Forerunner 265. Also great video as always, love the channel!
Andy, great roundup, thanks for all the info and generally for the running channel! I started running in lockdown at the age of 48, now at 51 I'm taking on my first half Marathon in January and I have the Running Channel to thank for getting me out there in the first place, giving me loads of advice along the way and for keeping me motivated. I picked up a used Forerunner 735XT which does the job, but I love the look and features of the 965 as I think the training insights and guidance would really help me push on to the next level. Thanks to the whole team!
I switched from Fitbit to the Forerunner 55 at the beginning of the year, and absolutely no regrets, I'm currently using the garmin coach to help train for a half marathon. 
I would love to upgrade to the Forerunner 255s with music. Not taking my phone would be amazing!! 
Started running in about April this year and had no intention of doing anything longer than 21km.Only started for the fitness snd health benefits of being active....sooo long story short I'm considerimg doing my first ever marathon on the 2nd of December 😁
I would definitely go for the forerunner 265. I think with a super accurate GPS, and features like Training Readiness, it's a watch that will both help track runs really well but also help me make better workout decisions.
Just started running, and I didn't realise how much was involved in it from specialist running shoes to watches.  I have to admit the Forerunner 965 looks brilliant with all the extra fixtures like the suggested workout features that will help towards my running goals, just will have to ask Santa for it.  🙂Cant wait for the next video The Running Channel release and keep up the good work.
Thanks for the informative video. I have always wanted a gps watch but get so overwhelmed with the options. I have been running with my phone, but I'm in Canada and the cold weather kills battery power, and has failed me on several runs. A Forerunner 255S would be my dream phone. 
As a new runner, all of these options were slightly overwhelming, but it's so cool learning about all the technology out there for runners (and athletes of all kinds!) As someone who gets lost just trying to navigate the trails of a park that's only about 2 sq. miles, any watch with GPS navigation sounds like a dream! Will definitely check out that video that covers all of the Garmin watch specs to learn more about the Forerunner series options!
I would definitely go for the 965 or Epix pro just to experience the amoled screens. I've really been eyeing something with navigation and maps when I go on trail runs or newer areas around me. Love that Garmin has so many options!
I love my Venu 2plus which has helped get me back running regularly this year but I would love to upgrade to a Forerunner 965 for those advanced stats, mapping and suggested workouts! Love the RC content as always, keep knocking it out of the park guys!
I've been using the 245 for a few years at this point and it has served me well in improving my pace/running fitness. I'd love to upgrade to the newer versions with the 265 or 965 even to step up my triathlon training.
Thank you Andy, you explained the different models in a very concise and easy to understand way. I recently purchased the 955, using it has improved my fitness and has taken me from no running to 6km in 3 weeks. Age 65.
Thank you Andy for the thorough explanation of the features they offer! All of them are so nice! The forerunner 265 is soooo beautiful! It would be such a big motivator to head out there and run! Keep on rocking!!
New runner here at 41 years old, just started running a couple of months a go and caught the bug. Binge watching this channel certainly has given me more then enough information to get me hooked and give me good running knowledge. Haven't got a watch yet, and never had one, so iv'e started out running without worrying to much about all the data - although 2 months into my journey already and I think a Fenix 7 pro would certainly get me up to speed in hitting 5K at correct pace without me coming up short all the time at 4.8K because mentally I think I have finished hahaha. Love the channel and love running! Enjoy everyone.
I am a 23 year old girl who just graduated college. I was a division 1 rower and collegiate soccer player, so after graduating, I decided to get into running to keep up my fitness. It’s been a great hobby and I also get to run with my dad which has been great for bonding! We have done a couple half’s and have our first full marathon in February. I have only had an Apple Watch 5 and want to increase my fitness and running, so I think the Forerunner 925 would be great! Especially for the battery longevity and multi sport as I also want to get into triathlons. I have a smaller wrist so I think the 965 would be too big but that would be my top choice.
About 6 months ago I started running, after always having said that running was nothing for me. It is by far the most accessible way of working out and I'm really happy I started. At the beginning I got a second hand Vivoactive 4, but now that I've seen the light I would really like to make a big upgrade to the forerunner 965. Maybe I'll even sign up for a marathon!
Also: the running channel has really helped me to get motivated to get this far and I'm really grateful for it, thanks everyone!
Started running this summer with a 4 mile race in mind, which went great and it got me so hooked that I'll be running my first marathon next year in Copenhagen. With my 30-40km weekly mileage, something like the Garmin Forerunner 265 or 255 seems ideal to get me ready, help me plan my training and resting and prevent serious injuries!
Forerunner 965. Did my first half marathon this year with my partner and loved it! Having a watch would be so helpful to train for another one next year
Thanks Andy, that's a great breakdown of the different watches. I've been a fan of Garmin for decades and currently have a Fenix 6 because of the open water swimming tracking I used during triathlon training. There are some super cool new features I would love to get my hands on and would love a standard sized epix Pro [Gen 2] Sapphire. Talk about next level 😮. Well done on the marathon this year. I'm signed up for Berlin in 2024, so I've been watching all the running channel marathon related videos. Keep up the great work.
Thank you for this - super helpful! I have a Venu (1st series) and it’s been a great introduction into a sports watch, I’m now looking to upgrade to a more running specific watch and I think the forerunner 255s seems perfect for me, but I would also love a fenix if given the chance! Whilst it wasn’t mentioned today I definitely appreciated the previous short I think Sarah did explaining some of the Garmin Safety features. As a female runner they have given me extra confidence and comfort to get out especially in dark winter runs - so thanks all! 🙌
This is a great video to drop the day before Black Friday. With so much technical data on all the watches it's easy to get a bit blinded, this cuts right through it all. I've been debating updating my Forerunner 55 to a 965 for the mapping feature. Traveling for work I often find myself constantly checking my phone for my running route. This confirms I'm in the 955/965 camp, just debating how much I need the pretty screen of the 965.
I have just finished my first 10k race and am about to start my half marathon training in 2 weeks. A Garmin would be a great addition to my training! I have had my eyes on the Forerunner 265 for months but haven’t taken the plunge yet! Thank you for clarifying that the 265 is the perfect watch for me :)
I’m 45 and returning to running after spinal surgery a few years ago. 
I’d love to get my hands on the Forerunner 965 to help track my training.
It been a year now since I have taken running seriously and I must say Garmin has really helped me achieve my running goals and not to mention The Running Channel is phenomenal in helping amateur runners like me with all your informative and inspiring content. Amongst all Forerunner 965 is my favourite..
Enjoy following your journey to the marathon! Ive finished a 14 week program for the halfmarathon, and just ended the first week of my 18 week program for the marathon. A Forerunner 965 would go great with the rest of the program! All the best on your progress
Great work Andy, this really helps lay out the differences and shows what sort of runner each of these is catered towards. As a Forerunner 35 user, I'm considering upgrading to take my running training up a level. After watching this, I feel like the Forerunner 265 would be the one for me. Would love to have my music on my watch so I don't have to take my phone with me and I love the AMOLED screen!
Thanks Andy for the video, it reignited my wish to upgrade from my FR245 to FR965. The FR245 has been a motivation to start running again during Covid and now aiming to run a full marathon in 2025. All the best for Valencia!
After watching your marathon training videos Andy, really got me interested in the Forerunner 965. Features look amazing! Great vid as always, cheers!
Thank you for the information.  Very helpful. I think I'm going for the forerunner series. Thank you
I thoroughly enjoyed this video, it was a quick and easy to follow guide that was really helpful. I'm fairly new to running as well, about 4 months now, but I absolutely love this community! The forerunner 265  looks like an exceptional watch (anything from Garmin is, really) that would really motivate me to completing my first half marathon.
Started running earlier this year after binge watching all the videos on your channel, now I usually either listen to the pod cast every saturday while walking to our local park run (yep its walking distance from my house how lucky) or as of recent while shacked up with a sprained ankle ... Loving the info I get from my 245 and its features but really missing the mapping ability and keep forgetting to download my routes from the planner when I go away :S
I started with the forrunner 55 upgraded to the fenix 7 pro solar sapphire. But have been looking at the enduro watch as im looking to start doing some ultra running. Your channel has helped so much with my running over the last 2 years. 👍💪
Great video, Andy. I am a late starter at 65 years old and have used a refurbished Garmin 35 to help me train for everything from 5k to marathon  I''d love to understand more about suggested workouts, recovery, sleep etc. to keep well and injury free. Currently working on low heart rate training before starting London Marathon plan and a Forerunner 255 would give me the boost I need to get out in the dark and cold months to come 😊
I am 35 started running about 4 month's ago and am just starting to consistently hit 5k (have mostly been doing between 2.5 to 3) when I first started I couldn't run for a bus so I am so pleased with what I achieved so far. I am considering a Forerunner 265 as my pixel watch just doesn't cut the mustard
Great video, Andy! I’ve been looking at the fenix 7 pro. I’ve used the original instinct since its release(it is seriously durable), but it would be great to see the run-specific data for my half marathon training.
Thank you for putting this video together, very helpful.  Thinking of going with the Forerunner 965.
Great video! I have been using my Forerunner 745 for 2 yrs now and I must say it does almost everything I need. Sometimes I wish I had bought the 955 or Fenix series for those added Navigation feature when I'm out on a hike. The raceday widget also seems very appealing but that alone doesn't justify upgrading my watch at the moment.
got the forerunner 255 last year and it literally changed my running experience completely! I'm now using it to train for my first ever official half marathon race :D would love to upgrade to the forerunner 965 eventually!
Thanks for this great overview. I would really enjoy the forerunner 265s music.
The Garmin Fenix 7S has caught my eye, and this video made me think it's the one I should start with. I'm planning to get deeper into longer distance trail running over the next year, and so far I've managed with my Whoop, Strava on my phone, and nothing else. It's time to level up and combine everything into one gadget! What a wonderfully informative video (as always).
The forerunner 965 looks amazing for a stats geek like me who likes to analyse every metric. I started running 6 months ago and I'm totally hooked on running. Keep up the great work guys.
Awesome video! Was looking into getting a new running watch. Really helped.
Brilliant rundown, thanks Andy and TRC. I've been using the FR245 music for 4 years now and have found it to be great. I think given the choice I'd have to stick with the Forerunner series but upgrade to the 965 - it looks great with the AMOLED screen. Good luck in Valencia!
I got a Forerunner 45 a year after I started my running journey. Now three years later thinking of upgrading, would like to stay with a forerunner, but there is a lot to pick from. I run 3 or 4 times a week, love the Garmin coach app. I will do a little bit of powerlifting 2 or 3 times a week, but my main focus is running where currently I want to bring down my 5KM PB. Thank you for the video.
Forerunner 265 training for ultra marathon nice I love it it help me lot in running I didn't know I how to run this channel help a lot
I started running again during lockdown and haven't stopped since. I've currently got a Forerunner 245 music so I'm a few generations behind. The Bluetooth went wrong with it and music stopped working but Garmin were good enough to send out a replacement and no issues since.
I'm getting into trail running more and more and the breadcrumb course maps aren't really cutting it any more with me getting lost quite a few times. I've been looking at either the Forerunner 265 or 965 for the much better maps but hadn't been able to choose up until now. With your information I've now swayed to the 965 as the course planning on watch will make things much easier when I'm travelling with work. Hopefully I'm lucky enough to be chosen as the winner but if not I'll have to add it to my Santa list and hope I've been a very very good boy. Keep up the good work l.
I've had my eye on the Enduro 2 for sometime and this seems like an ideal time to say it out loud (or at least in this comment). Thank you for the Video Andy, your knowledge of the range of watches is amazing, or the researcher/script writers is :) Lastly it was great to meet you all a few weeks ago, running 10K - The Ultra went okay the week after, even though I didn't quite get as far as I'd hoped.
Quite new to the channel but not to running:). This video was super well timed for me since I've been looking into a Garmin running/smartwatch the last couple of weeks. My eyes have been on the Forerunner 965 since I'm going to start training for my first marathon after I've recovered from a concussion. Speaking of which, the watch would be a great companion for my recovery too!
Great explanation on all the devices and saves me reading through all the website data. Impressive to see the development in such a short time. Currently running with a 245 and would love to upgrade to the 965
Really useful summary overview of the whole range. Thank you Andy! I have a Fenix5x but think the Forerunner 965 looks amazing. Currently training for a half marathon using Garmin coach. Would be great to have more hill stats and round trip routing.
Another brilliant video guys!  So helpful to see in one place the difference between the watches in the range. Currently have a Fenix 6s pro and thinking about the forerunner 265 or 965 next!!
Thanks for the great review! The Garmin forerunner 965 would be my pick. 
After 2 years of battling with stupid Long-Covid. I have started a start 2 run schedule in September. I’m in week 10 from 13 weeks. It feels good to be back and win back some lung capacity! Today was my 2nd 30 minute run. 
I would love a Forerunner 965 ❤these videos are so helpful Thank You x
As someone who hugely enjoys using my runs as a way to explore new places I’ve never seen anything like the “suggest a route” feature of the 965 - absolute game changer. It’s great that you can input how long you want your run to be as well.
I may need a daytime nap after watching that video so we’ll done Andy and the team for the simplifying Garmin’s huge range of watches and features. I’ve been using the Vivo active 4, which has been a great starter tool for my gym, running, walking and general health, but the 965 looks like it would take anyones running and fitness to the next level. Good work.
Been a huge fan of TRC since lockdown, I started watching your "workout for runners" and still use them to this day 
Keep up the fantastic content and see you at the national running show in January!
Great video. Apple Watch works for me but I’m generally pretty envious of all the advanced features that Garmin offers for runners to stay on track. I’m training to get a PB in the 1/2 Marathon despite just turning 52.
I started to pick up running since the start of the year, and ran my first Spartan half-marathon in April.
oh no.... Now I want to replace my forerunner 245 Music... Not that that's a bad thing ;) Thank you so much for this video! Favourite would be the Forerunner 965, the round trip routing sounds amazing and would be amazing for exploring. Thank you for the info!
I've always wanted a 955 Solar. All the running features I need, love the solar glass and I have been delving into more triathlons over the last year. I could see it keeping me happy for a very long time.
The suggested routes on the Forerunner 965 sound amazing for travel! Thanks for doing this walk-through!
I've been looking to buy my first Garmin watch but found all of the information a bit overwhelming. This video popped up at just the right time, this was super comprehensive and helpful, thank you so much! I think I'm going to go for the Forerunner 265s 🙂
Awesome video, that round trip mode is so epic. I do a lot of travelling and always tend to run up and down in a straight line or have to carry my phone with me so that I don't get lost.
Great video! Really enjoyed i! got into running during covid and love your channel. Give me so much helpful tips and advice. I've now completed five marathons with a PB of 241 in London this year and would love to put the Phoenix 7 pro through It's paces
Great Video. My favorite watch is definitely the Forerunner 965. Looks great, nice Display and with all the features you need for running.
I've been running since June this year and have used the running channel as my go to guide on all aspects of my running. With running being my focus I would go for the forerunner 965 the screen looks amazing ⌚️⌚️. Keep up the good work 👍
Really cool video! I started running this year in March, but got injured pretty early on. I'm still struggling with shin pain after trying to get back to running several times. I hope to have better luck next year. I'm a big fan of the Garmin Forerunner series. I love the way they look and all the smart features they have. The Forerunner 965 is my favourite, but any of the Forerunner watches would be fantastic!
I have been running now for just over a year and absolutely love the freedom of getting out there. I currently have the Forerunner 255s Music in white  which is great but definitely want to up my tech to the Forerunner 965 in white! Looking forward to my Marathon in May and more adventures with the help of the Running Channel :)
Nice video Andy. I’ve been using cardio mode for bootcamp classes and swimming on my forerunner 45. The 965 is my dream upgrade.
I have been looking at different watches for few months and thats how i found this chanell thanks for summary of garmin line up ill probably land with foreruner 965
I’d love the 965 that screen is beautiful. Love the channel, love the all the presenters so inspiring to just get out there and run and enjoy it.
I've only been a runner for just over 18 months but I've been watching The Running Channel since I did my first parkrun back in April 2022. I have completed 3 10K races, 2 Half Marathons and the London Marathon and I'm about to start training towards my second marathon in Manchester next year. I would love to get my hands on the Forerunner 965 to use the Suggested Workouts feature to train towards my next races. I am also starting to get into trail running as well so the navigation features would be awesome too
Great comparison, Andy! I've been considering the Fenix 7 Pro SS , unsure whether I'd go for the 7s or the main model. I have an older Fenix which I'm quite happy with, but the longer battery life for long hikes and the custom run recommendations using race target times make me consider the upgrade!
Great video, with so many options it can be overwhelming researching Garmin’s offerings.  I’m a long distance hiker that just picked up trail and road running. The Enduro 2 would be a huge upgrade from my Fenix 6 for navigating multi-day hikes without needing a charge.
Never owned a watch before, and the Forerunner 965 seems perfect! Heard it's great for interval workouts and managing rest between sets. Winning this would truly level up my fitness routine! Fingers crossed for this amazing opportunity!
After I have been running for a while whit the old vivoactive3, and tested out the fenix 7, I have started to eye the forerunner965. Got to love that screen, and whit all the metrics, maps, and aids, I am sure it will help me to complete my first ever marathon this summer🙌🏻💪🏻
I'm still on the forerunner 245 music and I love it!  I may upgrade when I start taking running more seriously, but for now it's everything I need.
Excited to getting back into running after taking some time off this year! Thanks for the walkthrough of all of the different watch options!
I need to purchase a new Garmin so this video is timely and helpful. I think the forerunner 965 would fit my needs perfectly! + Andy, all the best for this weekend 👊
I really like the Forerunner 265 and it would be a nice upgrade for the second hand 245 I'm currently using.
Really appreciate the videos The Running channel makes! Very informative and entertaining. 
Been using Apple Watch SE since I started running a year ago but now I am getting serious so would love to upgrade to a Garmin Epix gen 2!
love your videos and keep running!
Thank you for the super helpful and informative video! I’ve absolutely adored my Forerunner 55, it’s really helped me in my training! I am working toward my first marathon and would love to upgrade to the premium screen/added metrics of the Forerunner 965.
Great video! The forerunner 965 is definetely my favourite 🥇
If given a chance I choose forerunner 265. Love the looks and features. Thank you for the advance Christmas gift @The Running Channel! 🎄
So walking and tail running.
Great video, started my running with the garmin forerunner 735xt and later upgraded to 745. Would definitely love the forerunner 965😊
My forerunner 35 I bought 5 years ago just got a new Band! It’s gonna be the right one for me for a long time now!
I’ve got the forerunner 45 and the difference that it made having my pace tracked during runs is amazing!
Great Video! I luv my forerunner 245, but wouldn't mind the Penix 7 😊
Tossing up between Forunner 965 and Epix Pro. Using for monitoring heart health, swimming, walking and trail hikes. Big decisions
I've got the forerunner 255s but I wish I had the 955 as the new screen is soo much better
Such a great video thank you! I have really got into running and I am hoping to step up my running game. I think having a running watch would help massively and the forerunner 265 would definitely do the job!
The Venu option looks great to me. Incorporating training and coaching into my running while having a comfy everyday watch sounds amazing!
I've never owned any kind of smart watch or fitness watch. I have my eye on the forerunner 55 as it looks like the perfect intro and would help so much with beginning my running journey!
I was a 100m-200m sprinter when I was young ( sad violin in the background ) , stopped due to various health issues that made me slower, didn't even run since I was devastated by it. I have recently started running longer distances after 12 years of not really exercising regularly and it have helped me massively to improve my mental and physical health , as well as finally getting over the fact that I am not going to be an elite athlete and it's fine!  I am loving running again and that is what is important! Currently I am running while holding my smartphone and tracking everything on strava, from splits , to hills , to 25k long runs. I could use a forerunner [insert whatever number here] to help. Don't mind the amoled screen or the music even though that would be super cool. The entry level 55 seems to have most of the features needed to compete from 5K to 100K ultramarathons.
Currently running with a garmin 245 but would love  to upgrade to a garmin 965. And then my daughter could have my 245. Good luck with your marathon Andy you will smash it
Thanks for the great video Andy, with all the watches out there it can be very confusing as to which one would be best, for me the Fenix 7x pro would be a great upgrade from my 245 especially the mapping upgrade for my trail runs. Keep up the good work guys.
Always good to see the new lineups, I picked up a 245 a couple years ago, as that was (and still is) all I could afford to go for.  If I had the money I would probably upgrade to a forerunner 955, so that gets my vote.  The 965 screen looks nice, but as a teacher at elementary schools I imagine the kids would want to mess with it too much if it looked that nice.
Great explanation! Hoping to get the forerunner 265s this Christmas
Brilliant video and really useful - my 45s has done well over the last 3 years but I now want to upgrade it to one of the 900 forerunner watches. 😊
Just the other day I was watching your video from last year about the Garmin lineup, because I‘m looking into finally switching from my Apple Watch (which has decided to only show my HR when it feels up to it). Most likely looking at the Forerunner 265 s for this. This video definitely helped confirm the idea!
Forerunner 965 for me. Great battery life, PacePro and maps on my wrist. Heaven.
I would choose Forerunner 255 as I am looking to take my running to the next level. Great video.
Super informative video!  Because I run, hike, and do both strength and HIIT workouts, I've always coveted the regular sized Fenix.  However, your video introduced me to the Epix pro with that gorgeous screen and I must now dream of this one until that lottery win!  😂
Perfect way to know the entire Garmin watches family and what best suit you right now. After years using VA4 I am now ready to use all forerunner 965 running functionalities, if you know what I mean 😉
Just started running when I turned 50 and loving it. The 965 with amoled and suggested routes would be great to improve my running without injury and start training for my first marathon
Forerunner 965 looks like an awesome watch! Great job going through all those features.
Found it really interesting to see the different features of every watch! As someone who plans to run their first marathon next year and has been doing all my training with my phone, I’d like to be more precise and serious with a forerunner 55 or a 255
Forerunner 945, never let me down and great for music. 
Great video. Love it. Running a few years now and I've always used and loved Garmin. I would love to upgrade to forerunner 965 or Fenix 7pro 🤞 one day
Thanks for this video. Currently looking to change my watch as have the Fenix 6S and had it for almost 4 years now. I was looking at the 7S as I've really enjoyed wearing the Fenix and wear it all day every day!!!! But now I've seen the Forerunner 965 I love the look of it, the features and the amazing screen.
I trained for my first marathon completely without a watch...seems insane now. 😀 Love a watch that can be used to listen to music or podcasts on, really prefer leaving my phone behind for runs. The Forerunner watches look super cool!
Great review of the Garmin options; so many choices! I'm 65 years old and been running for the last 25. Currently I have a Vivoactive 3(?) but would love to upgrade to a Forerunner 265!
I've been an avid hiker for some years, and the Garmin Instinct 2x solar watch would be the perfect companion for my adventures. With its rugged construction, long battery life, and comprehensive fitness tracking features, I know this watch would help me take my outdoor experiences to the next level.
Love my current forerunner 235 but the fenix 7 pro x would suit me down to the ground.  
Keep the videos up lovely running peeps.
Thanks Andy, great video, and really helpful! I've been running for 5 years now and have always used an Apple Watch, but I'm definitely very tempted by a Garmin. I love the pacepro and body battery features, I think I'd use them lots, and it would be so much easier using pacepro than trying to do time based maths whilst out on my runs. Given the choice I think the Forerunner 965 looks like a perfect match for me, as I need my music on the go! Thanks for keeping us up to speed with all this great info!
Great content as always Andy. I started running  nearly 3 years ago and would love the Garmin Epix Pro (Gen 2) to compliment my running 🏃🏽‍♂👟
Looking forward to the ‘Running home for Christmas’ video featuring Rick😀
Fantastic and comprehensive review, Garmin have more watches than I realized! My first and only GPS watch has been the Forerunner 35 for the last few years, and it is still great for what I need most of the time. However now that I've started running ultras I could do with more battery life. I am thinking the 955 or 965 might be the best option.
I've been running for about 8 months now. I never knew that something this advanced was possible! Having a watch map your route round trip!!? Definitely a watch I'll need to save up to buy! I'm training for my first marathon and doing it basically blind (I do have an old Samsung watch) has been difficult. I'll be looking into a forerunner!!
Great video. I began running at the beginning of the year. Currently have the forerunner 245 and looking to upgrade to the 265 or 965.
Great video. I’m training for my first marathon next year. I’ve had my eye on the Forerunner 965 for a while now
Thanks for this great video! It really gave me a good insight on the various Garmin watches available! In addition to my Garmin Edge 1040 that I use every week for racing cycling, the Garmin Forerunner 265 would be the perfect addition to maintain my physical health!!
I would love the Forerunner 265s. I've run my first half marathon in October and now I've set a new goal for myself. Running a marathon. I'm currently using an Apple Watch but as we all know that won't cover a whole marathon. Or at least not in my pace. So thank you for this elaborate video. I can make a decision for a new watch now!
Looking to get into garmin watches! Just started my fitness journey and excited to begin tracking with a Garmin.
A great round up of all the options Andy. I've been looking to upgrade from my Forerunner 235, aiming for the 265, depending on what deal I can find otherwise the 255 music as a second option. Thank you for the video.
Wow great composition. Love the running channel and am very loyal to garmin as a brand. Would love the Garmin 965 as it would be a major step up from my forerunner 245music. All the best from Ireland 🇮🇪
Great video Andy. Good luck with your first marathon. If my first marathon is anything to go by those last few km/miles are going to hurt but will be worth it. I'm currently training for a few 50 milers and my first 100 miler next year so maybe a watch upgrade from my forerunner 245 is due. Which to go for though 🤔
The video comes at just the right time, as I'm considering switching to Garmin. For me, it would be the Forerunner 965 with its new AMOLED display and full navigation maps, which would definitely help me during my runs.
The Forerunner 96 would be ideal for me. The round trip feature is an amazing tool that I'd use daily. The Venu 3 is tempting for the workout animations, the 7X has a flashlight that would also be great. Thank you for reviewing so many different models.
Looking to upgrade my old forerunner 135 which is starting to fail.  I like the look of the forerunner 265. Thanks for the great info and content!
Another great video i use the 265 its great for my needs the face is so easy to read when out on your run.
Thanks Andy ! Very informative ! I currently use an old Forerunner 455 and would love an upgrade to the Forerunner 965 !
Been running with my beloved 235 for 7 years. It saw me through my first park run, 10k and half marathon.. It’s time for its tired body and elderly battery to relax on display next to my finisher’s medals. I’m looking forward to getting a 965, mainly for full pace pro (who wants to do negative splits pace maths while in zone 4?😅) and that gorgeous screen.
What a lineup! So many options but the video helps narrow it down! Forerunner 965 looks very nice!
It's so nice to have a video comparing them all I always get lost choosing a new watch. I'm taking my running to de next level and am training for a half marathon and after that hopefully a full marathon. I would definitely go for the fenix 7s pro. Thank you for such an informative video
Amazing content! Garmin Epix v2 looks amazing for my lifestyle, running and golf addiction! I am just starting to train for my second marathon, chasing a new PB in July 2024.
I've always wanted a 955 Solar. All the running features I need, love the solar glass and I have been delving into more triathlons over the last year. I could see it keeping me happy for a very long time.
Fantastic video, thanks for the insights! I'm particularly drawn to the Garmin Epix Gen 2 for its blend of style and functionality. As someone passionate about fitness, this watch seems like the perfect companion for both my workouts and daily life. 🤞
Been looking for ages at Garmin, so many choices, thank u for breaking them all down, I'd def go for forerunner 55, my trusty Fitbit is not cutting now I'm deep in marathon training
This was an excellent video comparing all of the Garmin watches. I was undecided which model is the right one for me. I now believe that the Forerunner 265 is the one that will fit my exercise routine. Thanks for all the information.
Nice video. Very clear. I like the running channel very much!
I started using the Forerunner 245 about 18 months ago and it pushed my motivation for running. I am struggling with the push buttons though as they tend to get stuck every now and then. It is already the second replacement. Therefore, I would love to upgrade to the Forerunner 265 in the hope of better buttons and a boost with the race widget, the forecast of the suggested workouts, and the animated workouts.
Shame that never been mentioned, ForeRunner 745. Amazing watch and has everything you need. I have this watch for over 3yrs. Never disappointed. 😊
I absolutely love my Forerunner 245. Looks like the 255 and 265 are nice upgrades, especially the bright screen on the 265.
I would choose the Forerunner 965 personally. I have been lost in the forests far too many times and always wished I had something better than my phone. I also regret not having better statistics for when I spent months hiking every day. Cheers!
There are so many watches!! I don’t have a running watch right now and I think the Forerunner 965 would be great for my runs! I do Parkrun a lot and think this would help me get a PB! I watch all your videos and listen to the podcast!🏃🏃🏃
Super informative video! Since I don't have a watch, the Forerunner 55 sounds like a dream!! I mean, I do like the challenge of trying to do a speed or tempo run using my phone, but the suggestive workouts and pacing feature also seem nice 😂
I’ve been a track athlete for 29 years and started running longer distances a couple of years ago. Currently have a fenix 6s pro, but Love the features of the forerunner 965 and fenix 7!
In 2019 my friend got me into running. My first race was with him doing a half, which was tough. He then convinced me on my 2nd race, which was a 100k race 😅. Since then, I have loved ultra running and done a few more 100ks. With this I would love to have a watch that can handle this and also future 100 milers! The enduro Pro would be perfect.
I’m a teen and can’t wait for begin my training for some upcoming races! Didn’t like using my dad’s old Apple Watch and can’t wait for a refresh but might have to wait a while. I think the forerunner 225 music would probably be my favourite out of all because of the sick features and the fact you can play music from the watch which I think is so cool as well as suggested workouts on top. Hopefully will be able to smash out some PBs with a new watch sometime! See you on the trails runners!
I ran my first ever marathon a few months ago and I’m really happy that I got threw it without any problem. I’m rocking a garmin forerunner 45 but looking to upgrade to a bigger one, preferably to one whit navigation. Therefore The 965 would be my watch of choice.
I was looking at the vivoactive 5 just because it's similar in what it offers, but after seeing the others I'm not sure 🙃 probably the forerunner 255. Gotta love those buttons
Hello, I have the 55 model now, and I've enjoyed it . I would like  the 955 of even 965 . I run on roads and trails. Love the channel. Thanks 😊
Great video as always. Been running with huawei smart watch for the last year and its been good, but looking at the forerunner 965 and its vast features makes it really tempting to gear up!
Great video! pulling the trigger on the forerunner 265. would be awesome to have an Epix Pro but to expensive for me. Thanks for all the comparisons.
I have been using a Garmin 465 (without music) for almost 4 years, and I'm thinking of buying a Garmin 255 because, in my opinion, it's the best option for mid experienced runner with a good balance of features and battery. I feel the best option for training/running marathons. I hope I have a chance of winning one😅
I am rather a very late starter (37) to running. Really looking towards the instinct 2x range. The simplicity and battery life really appeal to me very well.
I have had a forerunner 245 for my first few years of running. Im contemplating the plunge to a fenix 7s as I have lots of trail ultras coming up. The extra features such as maps will be really very useful.
I've started my running adventures with a Forerunner 45 but after that video the Forerunner 965 looks very appealing as the next step up.
I do triathlon and currently own a Forerunner 935. I am thinking of upgrading to the 965 with the amazing screen and improved features
Great video! Been running with the Fénix for a while now, but want to switch to the Forerunner. The amoLED is unreal.
Well done video. Just started running this summer and using a handed down vivoactive 3.  Would love to upgrade to the workouts and mapping features of the 965.
Great video as always! I use my Venu to track everything, run, gym, bike and also some rugby when it doesn’t has contact. Would love something more rugged and durable as the Enduro!
Really helpful video.... ready to upgrade from my apple watch to something like the forerunner 965
I'm using the vivoactive 4 at the moment which does the job but would like to have access to more advanced running features of the watches in the  forerunner series, i think 265 might be the right for me
Great video, lays out all of the differences and features. The Forerunner 965 would be a great upgrade! The full-featured maps are great for navigation.
Great Garmin watch comparison, very helpful. I would really like a top end Forerunner or Fenix, they're all superb tbh. Keep up the videos and merry Christmas! Regards. Graham.
Very informative video , I currently have the forerunner 55 would love to upgrade to the 265
Awesome breakdown of the very extensive Garmin lineup of watches! While the Fénix 7 has always caught my eye for its abundant features and smaller S version, I think the 965S would be a great watch for me. The in built coaching and newer health metrics would help me to get more consistent and progressive as a runner, rather than relying on my own haphazard plans!
I am branching into tri this year and currently have a 645M. The ability to switch from swimming to cycling to running at the touch of a button will be very useful and ideally I would be getting myself a FR965.
My forerunner 245M has been a great buddy last few years across 3000km running journey, if I'm have to pick one that would be 965 for sure for the premium built and fantastic AMOLED display and great battery life🎉
I'll be hiking the PCT next year and have been dabbling with trail running for the first time. I'd love to set an eventual goal of doing ultras, but for now, I think the Epix gen 2X would be best suited for a 2,652 mile hike from Mexico to Canada. So, as of now, that's the one I'd choose! Thanks for the info!
Having had the Garmin forerunner 735xt for the last few years I'm looking to upgrade to the Garmin 955 or 965 to record all my running and other random sporting fun activities. Training for Rome marathon in March and 2 ultras in May, my watch definetly gets a lot of action!
I started running/jogging before Covid, but nothing serious. And then during lockdown decided I need to up my game. Worked out a route on Google maps, checked the time I left home and got back on my phone, and that's how i measured my runs. Eventually bought a Forerunner 35 and that upped my running. Also got one for my wife.
I recently did my very first half marathon, I enjoyed it very much and it made me decide to start training to do a full marathon in a couple of months. In order to do a good training, and do long runs without getting lost, it would be handy to have a watch like the Forerunner 955 with it's detailed maps.
Thanks for the explanation. I’d love one of the forerunners 255
As a runner who is looking to run the first marathon I would like the forerunner 965! Thank u for the video and I wish everyone good luck!
Brilliant video so informative, I have recently ran my first ever 10k at Victoria Park managed it in 1h 12 mins and even got my mug in a picture going over the finish line, I have definitely caught the running bug and just treated myself to a proper pair of running shoes, if I am lucky enough to win one I would love the 265 46mm but then if I am honest anyone of them beats my little Casio. Set my self a goal of running a half marathon befor i hit 40 so I have year to get training. Amazing channel you all do brilliant stuff and make content for all types of runners 🎉
I currently own Forerunner245 and it has changed my life and health hugely. Since the purchase, I have done a half marathon and signed up for my first full marathon in April 2024. I love that the watch can keep motivating me everyday. Forerunner965 would be a fantastic upgrade as I love this map feature! Mapping for a run, especially a long run, has always been a bit difficult part of my trainings. I would be thrilled if I will be able to own this super watch!
The Forerunner 955 would be the ideal running watch for me - I think pre-planning of variable routes and training plans would help take me to the next level whilst keeping the necessary longer battery and loading up my music as a running companion 👌🏽
Thanks for showing us the range of watches available. I’ve been eyeing the Epix Pro for awhile. I hike has much as I run.
love the running channel
Great vid - I like the 4Runner 965 😊
I was really stuck between the Forerunner 965 and Fenix 7 Pro but this has really helped! Going with the Forerunner 965 hopefully 🤞🏻
I would love the Forerunner 965.  That looks amazing.  I still have 3 x forerunner 305 because I love the splitscreen in to 4 measurements and I love the training partner feature where I can race myself . . 15 years and I have never stopped using them
I would love to upgrade to Garmin Forerunner 965. Your review of this watch really resonated with me 😊
Great video. I have the forerunner 245, it's a great watch. Would love the 965 with the extra features but it's expensive
Intresting platform to share my running journey. I never ran before in my life but somehow I stumbled upon love for treking the Himalayas and for that I had to be fit. It became motivation to Run and soon I started participating in Runs and started enjoying it. From 5k on Jan 23 to 21K on Oct 23 and currently prepping for Full Marathon. I would have never thought I could do this that too in such short span. Somewhere in between I got Forerunner 245 and it has been amazing, its so feature loaded that I'm still finding some new features every other day but given a chance to win a Garmin watch I would love Garmin Epix pro as it would be perfect for both Running and Treking the Himalayas ❤. BTW have been to two week long trek of Himalayas till now and hoping for many more.
Currently have the 245 Music, lovely watch and great for uploading podcasts for my Sunday long run.
I love my Forerunner 245 Music but I have been looking to update it. The Forerunner 965 looks to be next. Thanks for a great review of the current Garmin offerings.
I started running 2-3 months ago and it has changed my life for the better. Before I was always working out but I was unhappy with my condition. Even though I was fit, I always felt something was off. 2-3 months before I started running, I took a rest from working out and lost significant amount of muscle. When I was ready to get back, I wanted something more challenging so I said why not run? Within weeks I lost 6-7 kilos, all my clothes started being large on me and the smaller size clothes I was keeping but not wearing in my closet became perfect size. First time I started running I could barely run for 10-15 minutes, 3 months in and +1 hour runs with 5:30 pace doesn't even bother me. Currently Im just below 25:00 5k and my goal is to get sub 20 soon and have enough endurance to run a half marathon.  Dream watch? Forerunner 255-265 would get me through everything I need.
I just started running abort six months ago, and to my surprise, I completely fell in love with it. I’m currently using my Apple Watch for all of my runs, but would love something with a better battery life and some more running statistics, so I would love an upgrade to the Forerunner 265. As always, great video, I absolutely love your channel.
Started running after a horrible ATV accident in 2008. I really enjoy the sport and I belong to a running club. I've used the Garmin products my whole running career so I know how reliable they are. I currently own a Venue but would like to upgrade to the Forerunner line, maybe a 265 or 955.
I currently have the Forerunner 245 Music, but now I’m setting my sights on running ultra distances on trails the Fenix seems like the perfect match!
Garmin Forerunner 965
Great review Andy in whay is such a complexed feild. For me as a trail runner mocing into ultras it has to be the Enduro 2 especially because of the mapping features. 
I have a forerunner 55, the 965 looks amazing :)
I started with started with the vivoactive 3 (from and Apple Watch) and it sold me into the eco system. Then I upgraded to a 945 for a year and loved it. Then when I saw the instinct 2x solar come out, I was interested and traded in my forerunner for it. I have had that since June and I love it. I miss mapping but I never used it really. So it’s more me wanting the bells and whistles. But the instinct is more accurate on HR and Distance than any of my previous watches.
I’m itching to try the round trip feature on the Forerunner 965 - This sounds like a perfect way to explore new places when I travel for work!
Good work....plain and simple Forerunner 265❤
Excellent informative video! I’d love to try out the forerunner 265 🤞
Good walk through Andy, I'll be saving and reviewing again when it comes time to replace my FR935. I am looking at extending my running to Ultra distance next year and would love the Enduro watch (but £££ might dictate otherwise!)
I have been running for around 3 years now and would love to get more involved in trail and ultra running! I currently use my mum's garmin forerunner 35 which has taken me through a marathon and I have been so impressed by how long it has lasted! I would love to upgrade to a Fenix 7 s for the mapping features, and all of the data analytics as I am a little bit obsessed with analysing my runs and I would really like to prioritise battery life (I have been sold by this video)
The newer Fenix has so many more features over my ancient (2018) Fenix 5S. The general feature upgrade is very tempting but might be hard to justify. But thanks for the run down, it really highlights the software upgrades even between the same series of watches. I do love my watch but it could be even better....
Fairly new runner here, and I love my forerunner 55 😁 but I like that the 965 has more details on running up hills, and living in Devon, that would be really useful! 😂 Thanks for the great video.
I really like the look of the Forerunner 265.  My eyesight isn't great in dim light.  At this time of year, with the dark mornings and evenings, I really struggle to get motivated to go out and run - I think that beautiful bright screen could really be a game changer for me!   Great video - thank you.
I am eyeing the Forerunner 965. Finally shifting from an Apple Watch to the Garmin family. First marathon on Sunday and I wish I already had the Garmin metrics working for me.
Really insightful video, thank you! My vivoactive 4s has served me well on my beginner running journey but I’m starting to venture now into longer distances. I think an uprgade to the garmin forerunner 265s would really help me on my journey. I also really love the amoled display!
Getting into ultra running this year. Looking at Fenix 7 solar sapphire or the 965 for their mapping capabilities along with the battery life. Both look an amazing bits of kit.
Thank you for this thorough review. I purchased a Forerunner 265 a while ago (replacing a 245) and would love to have the map features available with the Forerunner 965 (not to mention the stamina/endurance measurements).
Amazing video awesome details about the full watch range! been running for about 9 months absolutely addicted and currently have the forerunner 55 amazing watch and has helped me loads. Must admit the forerunner 965 is a beauty and would love to upgrade to that soon :) love the map feature and the possibility to have music without bringing my phone
I currently use a Forerunner 255 Music and it coached me through my first 10k, and currently working towards my first half marathon in January.
The Forerunner 965 is the one I'd like to move up to, but feel like I need to earn it. Maybe when I get a 2 hour half, that will be the present to myself!  
Got myself a forerunner 235 but it’s starting to glitch so having a new watch ready to start my marathon training would be great and also would be a nice early Christmas present from what I call the best running channel I’ve watched, plenty of advice and recommendations. I’ve told others about the running channel and they’ve told others also. So a new watch would be great, maybe the forerunner 265 or 965 would be amazing ( not pink though) 😂
Really comprehensive video with lots of detailed information. Right now i use a Forerunner 245 but would like to upgrade to a Fenix 7 Pro Sapphire Solar :)
Thanks for the superb video for such a dizzying and impressive range! I’m really starting to step up my journey into trail running and the fenix 7 pro (regular size) would be the most amazing unobtainium support as I push my efforts on the trails! ❤ 🔥 ⛰️
The 965 with all its features would be so helpful with my training. I’m hoping to do a marathon next year and having a watch with all the help of a running coach is my ideal coach.
Garmin forerunner 245 has been amazing after getting into running a year ago. Does everything a new runner needs.
Cool Video, i am using a forerunner 255 and are pretty on fire with the 965.
I've been using the Forerunner 55 for 2.5 years now and I've been really happy with it. Forerunner 965 would be a great step up.
This has been a year of growing possibilities in my active life, and I now have my first 12 hour run success. It would be great to say that my active life required the battery life and multitude of options provided in the Epix Pro or even the Enduro 2. Maybe someday! For now, the Forerunner 955 Solar for the stamina feature, navigation, and GPS battery life provide what is right for me now.
Have been using the Forerunner 45 with great pleasure. Now I'm thinking about upgrading to Fenix 7 or Epix 2, a couple more nice features and a waterproof watch will make outdoor challenges easier and even more fun
I have a Fenix 5s saphire and I love it ! It is the ideal guide on long bike rides and provides useful insights for running and triathlon. it's however unfortunate that Garmin doesn't include the new software features with the updates.
As someone new to watches and running, I'm someone who loves tactical gear and intense training, So the Instinct 2 solar would be a dream to win!
Been eyeing up the Forerunner 965 for a while. Love my Instinct 2 - navigation is it's only let down when I'm out in the wild! 😂
Maybe it's finally time to switch from Coros to Garmin. I would love to upgrade to the Garmin Forerunner 965 or 265. Awesome video!
I recently lost my Coros Pace 2 while swimming in a particularly wavy sea. I bought that watch to see if I would enjoy running as a way to stay in shape. It was a good purchase and motivated me to go out and run 3 times a week. Now that I've lost it I'm looking at replacing it with a watch from the Epix series. I would definitely enjoy the more rugged build quality and a bigger screen can't hurt. My fiance has a Venu2s and the suggested workout feature is pretty cool as well. So if I would win I think I would go for an Epix Pro 2 51mm
Great review. I’m training for my first marathon like you. The forerunner 965 would be perfect for my training too.
965 would be perfect to help me train for my first marathon. The navigation will make it easier to explore new routes whilst doing my long runs in London. It's so easy to get stuck in rut doing the same km run, I feel this watch will help me shake it up. Thank you
I currently wear a Garmin Forerunner 965, love this watch,GPS is fantastic, Epics pro would probably be my next watch from Garmin,or if they come out with a Forerunner 975, thanks thanks for your hard work
The forerunner 265 would be amazing for Xmas 🎄 🤞. Keep up the great content
Newer runner started in May. The forerunner 965 looks amazing
Hoping to run my first marathon in 2024! I’ll be picking up a garmin to help me get there, eyeing either the forerunner 265 or venu 3!
I currently use a Fenix 6X Pro (having moved from my Apple Watch SE due to poor battery life on my long runs).  I love the fact I a tonne of battery life and can pair my Shokz open run headphones and listen to Spotify playlists on my long runs.  I turn 50 next month and have entered my first ultras next year (RTTK in June and RTTS in July).  One of the main reasons for switching to the Fenix and of course the multitude of data points captured to help monitor training progress.  I am seriously considering the Epix for the fantastic screen, especially on these dark morning training runs!
Nice vid Andy. I had a 205 for years but got fed up with the bemused looks of younger runners so upgraded to a 55 which is dead easy to use and live with. Battery life no problem for marathons but looking to do the SaintéLyon next year so maybe looking to upgrade, hesitantly. Shame there's no marathon plans on Garmin connect....  🤔
This is the video I have been needing! I have been looking to upgrade my garmin but I have been unsure of which one is for me, the forerunner 965 has all that I would want as I am looking to pace myself to new pbs and would love to try new routes on my runs with the map feature!
I love the AMOLED display 😍 but also love the practical features of PacePro to really take my runs to the next level, and I have tiny wrists. The Epix,  Forerunner 265 or 965....decisions, decisions 🤔
Really helpful video. Great explanations. I'm currently using a forerunner 45! I think out of the all I liked the forerunner 955 solar or the 965 the best 👌
Currently use a FR255 for running and sleep/HRV tracking, but still rely on my faithful Instinct Solar when doing gardening and DIY.  Pairing the FR255 with the HRM-Pro seems to give me all the data and accuracy I'll ever need!
I've been using the Fenix 3HR since it came on the market and it's done the job for all my cycling and running needs, but ready to upgrade to the Fenix 7X Pro Sapphire!
Really interesting video. My trusty Forerunner 235 has served me well over the years, but I would really love some of the training features that the newer watches now offer. That Forerunner 965 looks great and would really help me at next year's Loch Ness Marathon
I'm 34 and have been running since my school years, but I got serious about it and began tracking my progress and mileage during the Corona pandemic. I used to have a Fenix 5, but it stopped working a year ago, so I switched to Apple. However, I find myself missing the suggestions and metrics that Garmin provided. I'm now dreaming of switching back, and I'm particularly interested in the Epix Pro.
Great video! Forerunner 965 would be awesome for me. I'm always struggling to plan out a running route around my area without holding my phone and frequently checking the map.
Very good and informative video, thank you. I'm coming back to running after a decade of laziness. Using the Forerunner 245 and very happy with it, but miss AMOLED displays.
I started running this year after looseing 24kg weight. And so far i don't have a good running watch. But i love the gadgets and looks of the fenix 7s. Hopefully this will be my first garmin watch for getting better in running. Loved the video.
Would love to get the forerunner 255. Currently run with my phone but the accuracy of the 255 and the additional features like training readiness and running power make it the perfect option for me. I also like that there's such a big range of activities to select from
Great overview. Thanks, Andy. As an @ultratrailrunners member, I would go with epix pro (gen 2).
no but choosing a watch is soo overwhelming. for my last birthday i decided to get myself new running shoes and a watch. that was in september and i still havent bought the watch 😂 
I have been a jogger for the last couple of years and used the forerunner 55 but as the battery life slowly begins to dwindle and I discover the joys of triathlon I would love to upgrade to the forerunner 965 :)
I started with a forerunner 305 then went to the fenix range. I currently have a Fenix 5 but epix range sounds great especially with the solar feature
The Forerunner 965 looks like an amazing watch.. 🤞🏾🤞🏾🤞🏾
I would love a forerunner 965, that screen looks amazing. Currently using the forerunner 55 but with my first marathon in April, an upgrade might be due!
I have the 235 right now, it's old! but for sure the forerunner 265 is my dream end game watch
I’m a marathon runner, and I would looove the Epix pro saphire 42mm. 
Great video. I’m a runner only and ended up grabbing the Instinct 2 Solar on sale. I love it. I was tired of my Apple Watch’s Amoled screen that turned on and off all the time. The instinct 2 pretty much just looks like a normal watch with the monochrome display.
Really handy Video as I'm looking to upgrade from my existing watch, swaying towards the Fenix 7 Pro after watching this video given the relatively small increase in cost vs Forerunner 965
Running with the Forerunner 55 and more than happy, but if you are offering a chance  to upgrade 😂 then the Forerunner 965 looks amazing. 
Started off with a second hand Forerunner 745, but thinking of upgrading. Would love to try the Epix on my newfound love for trails
Love the content you guys put out! Have been a pretty standard runner using a basic Fitbit tracker for a while, up until now. I have recently become more serious with running as my main form of exercise and wanting to upgrade to a Garmin. It will help give me analytics to help improve my run times and keep me on track as I have signed to a half marathon next year. I have watched a lot of your content of both the 965 and the Epix Pro (Gen 2). You guys make both sound sound really attractive, I don’t know what one to pick. I would love to win the giveaway for either of those watches so you can make the decision for me haha. Keep up the good work all!
The forerunner 265s looks great for me as I am beginning my training for the Manchester marathon. I have entered for the last 2 years but keep getting injured before it so hopefully it is 3rd time lucky!
I'm currently still running without a sports watch (just use my phone with stopwatch), but that Forerunner series is starting to look more and more appealing the more I see/hear of it haha.
I started running properly for the first time this year at 30 after running a company 5k and getting hooked, running a couple of half marathons and signing up for a full marathon in April next year. I've had Apple Watches for years as my fitness tracker but have been looking for something a bit more recently and would love the Epic Pro to transition over to Garmin.
3 years ago I was doing my research on which Garmin watch I'd want to buy since I was really into running and would like to improve my runs. I ran at 4:30/km on short runs and was finally dipping my toes in trying out a half marathon. 
Now, I'm slowly pacing myself to get back to my old PR if I can without injuring myself. Forerunner 55 would be great to get me back on my feet again and be consistent enough to run my first half marathon and reach 5min/km again
Great video, really helpful. My first Garmin was a Fenix 5s. I loved that watch, but it's getting long in the tooth now and technology has moved on, but I still really like the appearance and functions of the Fenix and Epix watches. As a runner in my late 70s, I would love to have the Epix Pro gen 2 for the amoled screen, to help my old lady eyes see my stats clearly when I'm running (can't wear reading glasses to run or I'd fall over!)
Great video with very useful insights. I'm running now for 9 months and run a half marathon under 1u50. Next up is training for my first marathon just like you and hope a new watch will help me achieve my goal. I have an old 245 and I'm interested in a Forerunner 965 or the Epix not sure which would be the best for me.
Good stuff! Been a fan of the FR 945 for years, I would like to get an Enduro 2 soon! The FR 945 cant keep up with me on my 24h+ ultra runs 😅
Great video, my fav has to be the forerunner 965 😍
I would go with the Fenix 7s pro since where I live in Sweden it's almost always dark in the winter sp the flashlight would be great as a safety feature when running. I also love the fact that it isn't massive like most Garmin watches.
I love the forerunner range, and love my 265. I have always donated my old garmins that i upgrade to newer runners because I know the difference having a good watch can make but also that its a big expense early on. I'd love to upgrade to the 965 from my 265 mainly for the added navigation and mapping capabilities. I use the navigation I have a lot but would like to have the clearer maps when exploring new places
The mapping feature of the Forerunner 955 and 965 is definitely the biggest sell for me. I currently have the 745 and have been using Garmin coach to train for for a 5k and is currently training for a 10k
Just turned 53 today and have been running for a little over a year now.  I have been using my Apple watch up to this point, but would love a Garmin watch!  The forerunner 965 or 955 would be amazing.
Thanks for the video. As a runner, I really like what the Forerunner 965 provides. However, I do like the features of the Epix Pro and how it’ll look for my (casual) professional life for everyday wear.
I've just started my running journey, and have goal set a half marathon for next autumn and a marathon in 2025! I blame the running channel for these goals! (Affectionately, of course.) I'd love to add Garmin's help to my training, to keep me on track.
I've always been eyeing up the Fenix 7s - the sheer volume of multisport options for my other pursuits to running (like rock climbing etc) just make it such a complete package and the sizing of the s watch would fit a lot better on my small wrists
i bought the forerunner 55 a year ago as a basic tracker when I trained for a half marathon last year. Debating doing a full marathon next year so potentially looking to upgrade to a 255 or 265
Very helpful video, thanks.  My forerunner 235 is over 5 years old so definitely getting time to upgrade - maybe a 265.  Wondering about garmin pay too if I can leave the phone at home.
I currently use the forerunner 255. Thinking of upgrading to that sweet oled display
I would go for the Forerunner 965, it really looks amazing! The features and capabilities are very nice!
I've been running with my Amazfit smart bracelet and later smartwatch, both of which came with my phone, but I've been meaning to upgrade to an actual running watch for sometime now... Hope I get the chance to play around with that Forerunner 265S 😊
Came back to running after years of despair due to trauma and circumstances and really think I would love to have that Forerunner 965 to assist in my training for half marathon and maybe even marathon.
Great video! Forerunner 965 would be my ideal watch with its big bright screen and all the capabilities of the bigger heavier Fenix and Epix watches. If you have one going I would love to help out 😊
Thank you for your informative channel. I started running in 2020 using a vivoactive4. Running now 15k and about to run a half marathon. I see that i am getting to the limits of my vivoactive for running. Looking to go for an upgrade. Dont have a preference at the moment.
Got a Forerunner, love an Epic Pro 2
Loved the video. Have a garmin 245 that in one year hav etaken me from unnfitt no runner to doing the 10 k in Oslo.
Really nice summary of the range, thanks. I've been using a 245 Music for the last year, my first running watch, and it's interesting to see what other things watches can do.
I have been running with the Polar Vantage V for 4 years now but I'm looking for a new watch and thinking of switching to Garmin. After watching your video, I would go for the Garmin Forerunner 965!
I’d definitely want to upgrade to the Forerunner 965 - it is beautiful 🤩
Currently got an I watch but will definitely be swapping to a forerunner once it’s time to upgrade
i have been trying to build my Aerobic base together with trying to increase my running pace. However I also use HR monitoring for Cycling and Swimming in preparing for my Triathlon Debut in February. Would definitely love to get my hands on Fenix7s for this!
I’ve fallen in love with Garmin forerunner 965🥰
It would be life saver for me since I’ve got lost almost every time I went to the longer run😅
Just got a fenix 5 mainly for the training plans but would love to try the forerunner with the bright screen!
Currently wearing a fenix 6 pro , had it for about a year now and never let me down , runs , cycles , triathlons , marathon (one) would quite like the Fenix 7 pro
My 245 has served me well! But as I am getting a more serious runner I would like to get the 965 for the bright screen and the suggested workouts to train more efficiently for my next marathon.
What a great range of watches! I’m on my 3rd Garmin, having started with Forerunner 910XT, then 920XT and now using the Fenix 5, maybe it’s time for an upgrade? I have my eye on the Forerunner 965, for sure 👌🏻🙌🏼
Have come back to my old Garmin Fenix after exploring what apple had to offer. The mileage, battery life and practicalities can’t be beat imo. I also use their dive series for scuba diving which performs really well. Would love to experience the running series as I’m transitioning into running longer distances (marathon and more triathlons next year).
The Forerunner 965 is gorgeous! That would be my choice ❤
Currently using an older Forerunner and would love an upgrade 🤞🏻
Forerunner 955 has been amazing for my needs
The forerunner 965 would be perfect for my half marathon training, which starts in January! 🤩
Thank you for the video. Still not sure about the forerunner 255 or the 265. Something you did not mention was how much longer will the older Forerunner models be supported with updates. I would go for the 265 with the big bright screen where I do not run with my glasses.
I’m running my first ultramarathon next year so I’d pick the Fenix pro 7 for the battery life and the maps
I am an Indonesian doctor, 35 years old,  started running regularly about a year ago. I am having garmin venu sq 1st generation as a gift. I am having hard time to pace my race. I am thinking about upgrading to forerunner 265. I hope to win the watch from the running channel. Thanks for the video.
The fitness smartwatches from Garmin like the Vivoactive series are absolutely fine for runners that just want the basics whilst running - pace, elapsed time, laps, heart rate etc.  I have used a Vivoactive 3 for years and it is fine, though I guess I have never really pushed the battery life as I am really only running up to half marathon distance.
My favourite Garmin watch is the Apple Ultra. Absolutely love it. Though I'd love to try a Garmin, my go to would be the Forerunner 965
Good vid. I do like the bright screens. Struggle sometimes with my 735xt not being able to read it while running . Could do with a bigger font size.
I’ve never been into tech for running, but since I got my 245, I can’t run without it! I’m still clueless about all the fancy options, but would love to upgrade to the 265!
Currently wearing the Venu2s, which I got before I started running and still works great👌🏻. But I am think about an upgrade for one of the Foterunner watches for the additional features 😍
27 yr old. I work in construction and currently use an Apple Watch(series 5). My wife and do Spartan races and try to fit in a half marathon when we can. Currently just training to fit into my tux for my wedding! My Apple Watch just doesn’t last the day for me. Early morning runs and a long work day tends to just drain my battery so I constantly need to turn off my watch screen so it can last me all day. Definitely loving the Forerunner 955 I think it would help me stay on track and will actually use the watch!
I am trying to figure out what possibly could be the better option to me as i have never owned a Garmin always been apple user but this helped alot and now i have 2 options to dig deep and read about ( venu 3 or forerunner 265)
I have the Garmin Forerunner 245 music and keep thinking about needing to upgrade. I definitely like the idea of the Venu range or a newer model forerunner.
I've been using the venu 2 for almost 2 years but would love to have the 965, I think it would give me the confidence to try running in new places with the awesome navigation features
Forerunner 965. Will be great addition to my running. Because my fenix 6 didn't gave me whole week suggestions.
That was very informative.  I'm thinking the forerunner 965 is the one for me.
I could make good use of the forerunner 965 😊!!! The screen looks so good and the mapping features look great.
Thanks for this summary! I’ve been using an Apple Watch for years and I’m ready to upgrade to the Forerunner 965.
I got the Forerunner 55 as soon as I started running this year, I have my eyes on the Forerunner 965 now.
I'm currently using a Vivoactive i purchased in 2017. I think the Forerunner 255 would be amazing, as I'm really looking to push myself beyond the 5k in the new year!
After having had surgery due to an ACL tear, I'm moving away from soccer and looking to pick up triathlon when I'm fully recovered. The Garmin Forerunner 955 would be an amazing watch the help me along my triathlon journey.
ForRunner 265 would be my pick although I would love any of the watches. I just got into running and don't have one yet so I'm sure any of them would help with my running and tracking. i would be grateful with winning any of them. At first I thought I wanted the best the 965 or one of the outdoor watch but i don't think I need that level yet and the 265 might be the best value for my actual use considering I'll have a phone on me with a map. Great video
Been running on and off for a few years and planning on going for my first half marathon next year. 
I currently have a Vivomove HR cause I like having the analogue watch as well but wanting in-built GPS capability for longer runs, so purely for this would love an Instinct Crossover though can’t justify the cost right now
Wanna get back to running and looking for a watch that will help me achieve my goals. I think the Forerunner 965 will be the best one for me.
Just started running been looking into getting a Garmin and would really like the Phoenix seven pro saving up for one at the moment so to win one would be amazing
Am in my forties and only running for 2 years but done loads of half marathons, would love a Forerunner 965 to take me to the next level for marathons and ultra trails
Awesome video breaking down the difference between each series! I have been using Samsung Watch 4 classic and have times it ran out of battery mid run which is super annoying! Epic pro seems like a good choice for me for a definite upgrade! Cheers!
Currently, I've got a forerunner 245 and would love to upgrade to a 965 mainly because I love the running stats and would like more and a 7 day suggested workout
If  the give away is still available I think I'm open for either a Venu 3 or forerunner 55 or Instinct series.
Great video. So many watches. Think the forunner 965 l looks best replacement for my forunner 735.
I really want a Garmin watch.  Especially the solar 955.  Really keen on the running assist feature but just tracking my overall health is what I want most.
I'd love to get my hands on the Forerunner 955 Solar. The incredible battery life, plus all the advanced features would make it perfect for road and trail running, and would help with training for my next marathon.
Grest video😊 currently using a forerunner 255 but i would really like to upgrade to fenix 7 pro (regular size) cheers😊
Useful insight. I'm hoping the Forerunner 265 drops in price on Black Friday. A free one would be best ;)
Would be the Fenix 7 for me - great for golf as well as running!
Epic Pro 2 is the one I would go for... a great watch and helps with varied routes so you do not get bored. If you are like me and a little directional challenged, it would stop you ending up on a motorway with a just your running gear (yes this did happen). The health snapshots and brighter screen are a great advantage with a reasonable battery life.
I'd love to have the Forerunner 265S. That AMOLED display 😍
Have been running for a little while, love the old MIPS screens but been looking to upgrade to the Forerunner 265 of the amoled
What a great review, thanks…I have been using Fenix2 since year 2015, so far besides the bluetooth pairing issue with iphone, the rest are still working well. The durability & endurance level are really good. If possible, would like to have wither forerunner or Fenix series, where it surely will helps & motivate me further on achieving my running & cycling goals.
Thank for this. My forerunner 235 has just about come to the end of its life, so I’m shopping for a replacement but it’s not easy to choose. Wife has the Vivoactive 5 but I’m used to the features of the forerunner. It’ll probably be the 265 as I’m not sure I can justify the jump to the 965!
I'd love the Forerunner 255S. I have the Forerunner 55 already which I really like but the chance to upgrade to help my training for my first marathon in October would be fab!
2 runs 🏃‍♂️ a week for me, using my Fenix 5x.Hope to start running more and will upgrade to a Epix 2.
Started running a 5 minute warm at the gym last year. I say running, couldn't even last that long. This year (at 46) I ran my first 5k, then completed 6 parkruns since and even even managed 5k training runs. All the while using my garmin fr55 to look at the numbers and see the slight improvements. Looking at trading up to the FR265 to get even more useful data as I push on to the goals of a 10k (next year probably now) and my 3rd and 4th Hyrox events in January and March. I'm definitely not a runner runner but more hybrid than anything but still the forerunner range is more than enough for my needs.
My Forunner 55 covers all my bases atm. Just placed the 265 on my wishlist, having to stop and pull out my phone to navigate on new routes can be annoying. Love the display quality
Thanks for this video as I'm tempted by the Forerunner 965 but I think it's just too big. Would have to go Forerunner 265
would definitely go for the forerunner 265, started running this year, also triathlon training, lookig forwar to getting one in order to get more data out of my training
I’m currently using Fenix 6 and I’m thinking about upgrading it to 7. Those hills and endurance indicators looks interesting as I’ve just started preparations to next season and I’m about to go through a lot of hill and trial running sessions…
I have the fenix 7S & absolutely adore it! My husband has an awful "smart watch" (won't name the brand) but I'd love to gift him a new garmin especially with Xmas coming up. Either the forerunner or the fenix series would be perfect, were both runners 🤞
Loved the vid, I am in the market and have watched hundreds of videos it seems, but yours is quality and to the point. I wish I could afford the higher end Garmins but sadly, there is no correlation between sem-avid runner and income :P - that being said, I would love to win any of the high end watches or the 265. Thanks!
I am very interested in the forerunner 255 watch because I think it will be the most suitable for my running. In a few months I will run a marathon for the first time, you can wish me good luck and I hope I will be able to use the watch. 😊🏃‍♀️
I’ve been looking for a replacement for my Apple Watch because the battery life is just terrible. I ran my first marathon earlier this month and my Apple Watch was difficult to use once your hands got sweaty. I’m leaning more towards the Forerunner series and this video truly helped narrowing my choices down.
Have the venu2, but definitely been eyeing some of the new features of the venu3.  Also been debating on the runners and outdoor ones for some of the features such as maps and training daily suggestions.
Very interested in the Garmin watches, have enjoyed running for a while but just started getting into tracking my progress (doing some indoor runs with Zwift) I think the Forerunner seems like a good choice.
What a good video. As a samsung watch 4 user, battery life is killing the mooi sometimes. I have to charge every day and loose the data. My first marathon in September I barely had my strava run (4h 48min 42 seconds)
Forerunner 965 would be helping a lot to improve for my next marathon in March. (Or the Epix). I love the amoled screen when I search them online 
I started with a Forerunner 235 which my daughter-in-law has now inherited.  I now love my Forerunner 255, but if I were to go for an upgrade, it would be the Forerunner 965!!!!!!
The one thing I miss with my 245 is the full mapping for when I'm leading runs for my club. The turn by turn stuff is excellent but mapping would be even better. If I had unlimited budget I'd go for the Fenix 7 for sure.
Training for marathon with my forerunner 35, so an upgrade to the 965 would help a lot, but I cant give that too much attention since Im the one running not the watch :).
Garmin 965  for me,  after a season running I think it he would help take running to  the next level , also I quite fancy varying off the road and colour mapping would definitely help me do that.
Currently using forerunner 955 but tempted by venu 3s for everyday use when not running
The battery doesn't last that long anymore but it used to be amazing for multi-day hiking trips, and the altimeter registers all my runs as having more than 100,000 feet of elevation gain, buts it's still kicking. The sapphire glass is completely scratch free still!
As a begginer runner, i think the forerunner 255 would be perfect as it also has music playback capability
I had the Chance to try on and test it for a few minutes the forerunner 965. More functions I need, I love it. Maybe one Day.
Looking at the Garmin FR 265 please - just a runner so the FR meets all my needs. I have an older version that is losing its battery now so high time for an upgrade and keen to check out the new screen.
The Forerunner 965 looks like an amazing watch for all kinds of runs - im really into Data so it would be a perfect match for me!
I'm really interested in the Forerunner 965 as I love the map feature and the outlook of a week of suggested workouts.
I'll have the Forerunner 965 please. The round route feature is something I'd love, I hate doing out and backs and running somewhere I've already been.
The Forerunner 265 seems like the perfect fitness watch for my needs, with its advanced running features and smart notifications.
Great review of all the watches.  I use an Apple Watch but would like to switch over to Garmin.  I keep looking at the Forerunner 965, Fenix and Epix versions, and think I’d want the 965.
As a fairly new runner, id love a forerunner watch, especially the 965 because i just really find the features fit my needs and interests best - the navigation, the data are all things that would make my life easier!
Hi im 19, bookworm student and started running a year ago to challenged myself what im capable of, my stamina improve a lot from pace 7 and now im at pace 3-4, last week i joined marathon 8km and im secure a place, really look up for latest garmin forerunner 265 but have no budget😂 because im still student😊😊
🤘😃👍 Great video. After multiple injuries and long rehabilitation, I have to approach training in a different and better way. I am looking for a sports watch where you can record  data of mainly  my running training, but also cycling, swimming and fitness, to combine for a better training schedule. A sleep function that records your sleep is also useful, as I am a bad sleeper. I'm interesting in    the fénix 7  sapphire solar, for there scratchfree  display and the longer batery life. I'm also looking at  the Garmin 965 - I think this is the best watch for my budget - with the focus more on running.  I'm curious how accurate they are and how they perform compared to the Apple watch Ultra 2. I hope to be able to start the year sportingly. Thanks for your advice. Keep on running!
I would Love the forerunner 965, preparing for my first marathon age 18.
For me the forerunner 965 will be perfect. Sometimes i run on a new route and i have to check my phone to almost every corner where to turn in :D  so the navigation is very important for me.
I bought a Forerunner 945 a few years ago and it's been great.  If I was going to get a replacement, I'd go with an epic pro Xfor that sweet amoled and touchscreen
Epix Pro gen 2. Not only for my running but also with my other outdoor activities.
I’ve had two Garmin VivoActive watches and loved them but now I’m running more I am thinking the extra features of some of the Fenix watches would be useful.
Thank U for explaining everything about all types. I has active S4 and died in salt water. I am running and I don't have the watch to measure my timings and distance. I am pretty sure that runner 55 will be great for me. Thank U so much
I think I'd go for the 265s, I have small wrists and some of the other watches just look too clumsy. I'm also interested in the suggested workouts to see how they can improve my running and overall fitness :)
I wish I could get the Forerunner 965. It looks incredible!
Only started running in late May this year. I purchased a forerunner 245 music which is a great bit of kit but the newer models do have a few more features that would definitely help with my training in preparation for next year's London Marathon. I would have to go for the forerunner 965, why wouldn't you!!
I have been using the Fitbit Ionic for the last few years, but that finally gave up.  I have been researching various smart watches/ fitness watches and have decided on Garmin.  Probably looking at the Forerunner 265 but if lucky enough to win I would opt for the Forerunner 965.
Thank you for the helpful video! Is the 965 the only watch with the round trip feature? Is it also the only watch that offers turn by turn navigation on the watch during a run or do others offer that?
I have the Forerunner 255s currently and would definitely recommend it for any runners. Would love to win a Fenix 7 pro s to upgrade to include running power metrics and better multi sport capacity!
I got a Forerunner 255 this year and am really loving it (can get quite obsessed about stats!). For an upgrade, I wouldn't mind getting a Forerunner 965 ... ;-)
Definitely need an upgrade on my forerunner 55 hopefully Santa 🎅 brings me 265 🤞🏻😂
oh wow, all of those look great. I would love the Forerunner 965 (or honestly a Fenix) — it's definitely time for me to upgrade from my apple watch!
Great to see all the different watches. I run with a Fenix 6 which does me. The 965 is the gold standard, but will it make you run faster???
I currently have the Garmin Forerunner 955 Solar.  A brighter screen would be nice, so will probably opt for the Epix 2 next time.
Ive had the forerunner 245 for a couple of years, it does a lot of what I need / want it to do. Definitely looking out for deals on the 955/965
Long time Garmin fan.  I started with a Vivoactive 3, then a Venu and now a Venu 2+.   I'd love to have an Epix 42mm now that I am moving from half marathons to 25k (first one in August) to my first marathon next fall.   The more sophisticated training features would be amazing as would longer battery life for longer runs.   The AMOLED screens are a must for outdoor activities.   I have a fitbit I wear as part of a US medical study and I absolutely cannot see anything in the screen in bright daylight.  It's just pointless until you get indoors again.
I have been runnimg on and off for about 2years, and i just finished my first half marathon last month. I got a second hand vivoactive 3, and compared with my old forerunner 35 it is a serious upgrade! But I am thinking about a more running centric watch like the forerunner 265...
Currently have the Fenix 6s which has been great getting into running. Though I'm still at the stage "this sucks and why does it hurt so much" bizarrely I'm still out 3 to 4 mornings a week as I'm training for RTTS 24 and RunSandringham 24 hour. The only thing that worries me about my current garmin is the battery running out during the events, which is why i'd probably choose the Enduro 2 :)
I never would want a flashlight in a running watch until now! Fenix 7s Pro Sapphire Solar!
I love my 245 but would like a upgrade. Has really helped my improve my running. Only thing it is mussing for me is Hit.
The Forerunner 965 is perfect for my goal of getting a sub-3 marathon for 2024!
I'm definitely interested in the Epix Pro (gen2) 47mm. It would be the perfect watch for all of my running, strength and hiking activities.
i really really want the Forerunner 965, 99% of the Epix but lighter, cheaper, and bigger screen. thanks for the video!
Currently enjoying the Fenix 6 but battle to read the display without my specs 🤓.  Amoled screen on the large Forerunner 965 sounds like a winner…
Very useful video. My Vivoactive 4 has just died after 4 years or so - I think I'll go for a forerunner 265 next.
I have started training for my first marathon, which should be a familiar feeling Andy. Though I have nowhere near your sports history. But after four years of enthusiastic cycling, including a Tour de France Grand Fondo and the Coast to Coast in a day, I felt I wanted a running challenge again. So a marathon it is. I also know that my Apple Watch is not going to cut it at a marathon. So I have decided to probably move to the Fenix 7 Pro  instead of the Apple Watch Ultra. Garmin has so many more interesting features for training, that it seems to be a much better partner. Plus I will get to discover all of those great new functions Rick shares on the podcast. So those are my thoughts at the moment. And if I would win it through the channel, I’d be willing to do a video with it on my first marathon for you. ;-)
Been chasing a sub 20 minute 5k for a while now and I feel like I’m almost there :) I would probably go for the forerunner 255/65 as they both have all the features I would find interesting/useful without going overboard.
Been using an Apple Watch for all my runs but I will be running the 2024 NYC Marathon and was hoping to purchase a new running watch to aid in my training!
In addition is the Epix pro (2nd gen) worth its price compared to the forerunner 965. I only currently run and workout. ?
I have been using the Vivoactive 4 for a couple of years now. Time for some well needed upgrade. Vivoactive 5 looks great, but all thes features on the forerunner 965 are tempting 😅
I'm currently looking out for a Forerunner 255 Music ... this is especially because it's the first one in the Forerunner Series with music integration which is very important for me on my runs.
All of the Forerunners or the Fenixes would be great, but really - it is the Epix 2 Saphire that is my choice - what an incredible watch! Fingers crossed.
Looking to upgrade from my applewatch. Want something mallet geared towards running but would also like for HIIT & golf use. Any ideas?
What I'd look for in a smartwatch is the GPS-accuracy, a bright and sharp display, and the ability to play music during my runs over Bluetooth. (Also maybe having eSIM option so I could leave my phone home - I like having it with me for any emergency calls if needed.)
I guess for most of these features an epix Pro or a Forerunner 965 would be the best choice, I'd be happy to win either of them. :-)
I have previously had a 245 (I think), and if I would go for a new watch I would probably go for the Forerunner 965. A bit bigger, a bit easier to use on the run, more advanced and refined features are the main components for me making that assumption.
I currently have a Vivoactive 4 , had it for almos 2 years now i think. I´m a tech-geek but also a student and training for a 32km trail run. I am very privileged to have the watch I have now, but I feel that maybe there is something better for me. I am also partime in the Norwegian Home Guard and think that I have more use for a more robust watch. My training week consists of everything from intervals to 10-25 km long runs, HIIT, strength, swimming and road cycling + skiing and slalom these days (I live in Norway after all). The goal is to do Ultra and maybe try Triathlon. I think the Forerunner 965, Fenix 7 Pro, Epix Pro (Gen 2) or the Enduro 2 would be a great match for me. (Excuse my bad English, it´s much easier to talk than write).
To be honest I would love to win a Fenix 7s. Right now it's my dream watch. As a student money often is tight so you work with what you have. For me at the moment is my phone. This year I ran my first two half marathons which got me hook to running. Thanks for the overview
I’m an experienced runner that ran in college and took a break from running after college. I have recently started training for a marathon and am looking for a watch that could help me train for it. I think the Firerunner 265 would be the watch I would choose if I won based on the features and what I’m looking for.
Not mentioned as it isn't a running feature but a big selling point on upgrading from the Vivoactive 3 to the 955 was the golf feature and all the preloaded golf course. 
I love all the extra running features on this watch but also getting the golf options was awesome.
Andy, what a great video! Nailed it with so much data talk and still hooked on to the end 💪🏼 I would love to win a Garmin watch. The new generation of Fenix 7 Pro is also with Amoled screen? That one could be nice or the forerunner 965 like you self 🏃💨💨 I'm only running and walking, so maybe that's the one 🤩 Or the Epic are Bada.... 😂 So hard to choose 😅
I have been running since August to lose weight, and to gain fitness. I have achieved my weight goal in September to my surprise, and I fell in love with running since and I have started training for a half marathon, but I don’t have a smart watch so I run with my 📱 I would love the 965 forerunner I feel it will help me with my plans for next year since I don’t have access to training, facilities or coaches the suggestions feature will help me a lot. 
Out of all of these three Forerunner 965 looks like the one for me. I’ve got the Forerunner 45 and would love something with more metrics to assist my running
I've currently got the Forerunner 245 music, my dream upgrade would be the Forerunner 965! 🤩
Forerunner 265S! ❤
I like that with Garmin everyone can find best fitting piece. I am happy with my Fenix 6s Pro, but would be interested in new features on Fenix 7 pro  or Forerunner 965
I use a fr945 at the moment but would like to upgrade to a fr965 as I am really happy with the forerunner series.
I'm a newish runner looking to get a FR165. But dont normally wear watches so dont want anything too expensive in case i hate it. 
I am a big fan of hiking, running, off-road, gravel bike. I think Garmin Enduro 2 would be perfect for a person like me!
The Forerunner 965 looks to have amazing mapping features!
I've been running for about 4 years now, but a bit inconsistently (various injuries, taking time off, etc.). In fact, I'm injured right now, but it's not actually from running - I played too hard with my dog and twisted my ankle 😂 Anyway, for me I think the forerunner 265 would be ideal, as I'm not super experienced with running nor do I need every fancy feature or many metrics. But I definitely like the idea of reliable navigation and the suggested workouts!
I would really like the Forerunner 955. The MIP screen and flat glass profile for a screen protector would be really nice. My 8 year old vivosmart hr is ready to be replaced and i am looking forward to my first half marathon the upcomming spring.
I would go for the Epix pro of the Fenix. As someone who works in the outdoors and regularly finds themselves in harsh mountainous environments, or paddling on a range of rivers I'd love something that would survive a busy day at work, as well as something that could record lots of stats of my runs and walks! I still love my Forerunner 45s, but it is looking a bit battered after several years of constant daily use. :)
I would choose the Epix Pro gen 2.  Mainly for the combo of battery life, screen, maps and flashlight. Good for running and hiking.
Been eyeing the forerunner 265 for a while but i find i hard to justify the expense since my polar m430 (5 years old) still works.
i’ve only ever run 5K and 10K, and this year I’m taking on my biggest objective yet, which is a 20K trail race (😬) and I feel like the Garmin 255 would be the perfect accessory to support me ! 🎉
Definitely the 965 ! As someone who has just started running after a bet with a friend to run a marathon in 11 months time - a watch that could help with training would be awesome!
I would love the 265 ! I'm still on my forerunner 35 since I've started running four years ago, it's maybe time for an update
I would go for Garmin Forerunner 265, Because it has all the features I use. Currently I run with Coros Pace 2.
Nice run through of all the watches. Winning a 965 would be sweet.
I’ve got back into running again in the last few months and I’m currently using an Apple Watch but the battery is starting to run pretty low on long runs and I’m starting to doubt it will make it through a marathon. I’ve been looking at the Epix as I quite want to try getting into trail running too.
Young runner here! I currently have the forerunner 245 and am heading into a promising track season. Any upgrade, whether it be a 255, 265, 955 or 965 would be much appreciated. Generally looking for all around improvements with better insight into training plans, sleep, heart rate data, and vO2 max specifications to improve my training.
I've been following the running channel for quite a while. I wish I could get epix gen 2. That would really help my goal of running a marathon. I live in the United States. Not sure if you're going to ship the watch from the UK. Thanks. Love your videos
I have a Fenix 6 Pro. As I am getting old, I find it difficult to see some information while running. So, I think I need to change it for the Fenix 7 X.
I’ve only been running about 5 years, but in my experience the Forerunner series as been reliable for me as a college runner. I don’t really need all the features of the newer Forerunner series, but a new watch would be nice. I currently use a 245, but I haven’t found it to be that accurate distance-wise when doing workouts on a track. Any longer than 2 miles continuous in one effort or rep and it starts clocking me as hitting the 1600 mark anywhere from 10 meters to 80 meters early. Also happens on occasion when doing 1600m repeats. Not the biggest pain but it’s a tad inconvenient to have to manually lap it slightly after I cross the line when it auto-laps early. Heard that the 255 has more accurate GPS, so wouldn’t mind getting something newer than the 255 to have something even more accurate. I also tend to avoid trail runs because the GPS dips out at random so I’m not getting the most accurate distance or pace.
I’d go for the forerunner 965, has everything I need as a multi-sport athlete
Garmin Forerunner 965 looks very appealing for me 🤩🤩🤩
I'm all in on the Fenix 7x pro sapphire. I like running, but I love OCR and there is nothing tougher than the Fenix.
I have the Venu 2 plus... Very nice! And I run and practice MTB on weekends... Nevertheless, I've seen some videos that shows all the metrics for the forerunner... I really want one of these! And as I don't like MIP display, I'd really love to have the 965❤
I’m really interested in the Garmin Forerunner 955. I think the data from running is the part I am looking for the most.
I'm thinking about doing an ultra at some point  but I'm terrible at navigation.  So thinking I need the forerunner 965 or the enduro 2
In the coming year I am training up for daunting 96km race. I have never really had a running watch but I think having am in the market. A fenix 7 solar would probably be perfect as it would provide long battery life and all the training metrics I would need.
Although I'd love to have the forerunner 955 or 965, I'd say the 265 probably has the best value for money for the type of activities I'd usually do, which is mostly just running. My longest run is 15k at the moment, and my neighbourhood is pretty hard to get lost in, so the simpler map feature is plenty!
Forerunner 255 would be perfect to replace my aging Garmin watch as I train for my second Ultra. The Pennine barrier 50 miles on May 4th.
Curious about Forerunner 965 and Epix series
in Forerunner 965 ❤
I would love a Forerunner 965 - the combination of an amoled screen with premium features looks very impressive to me.
On occasions I do still rock up to parkrun with my Forerunner 201 and I do get a number of strange looks. 😂 Being a bit of a data geek though I do like my newer Garmin devices, especially those with amoled which I can read more easily than MIP. For that reason my next watch will be the Epix Pro.
I also am coming from an Apple Watch. I think the Forerunner 965 would be the easiest Garmin watch to transition into. I love the design!
Nice compessive video. Would love to replaced my scratched fenix 6 pro for epix L to take on my runs, swims rides or any other adventure. Taco
would love a Forerunner 965! Currently running with an Apple Watch 7 and definitely noticing how much data I'm missing
I would go for the Instinct 2X solar for helping running at night! With the lamp it’s pretty convenient, I’m debating between the Instinct 2X and The Forerunner 965
I have enjoyed using the forerunner 245, but I would really like a bigger screen. I like the forerunner range, and the 965 would be my choice, and it would give me that extra incentive to go for that run.
I've got a Forerunner 45S which is good but often slow to lock on to GPS.  A modest upgrade to the Forerunner 55, perhaps?
i would love one of the forerunner watches. I currently don't have a smartwatch to track my runs
I would love to have the forerunner 965 or the epix pro. I love garmins watches and would love to upgrade!! :)
Currently running with the 245 but would love the opportunity to upgrade to the 965, particularly love those AMOLED displays. Plus id get to give my brother my 245 who has just started running and achieved his first sub 30min 5k
I have not yet owned a watch for running but I like the Forerunner 965.
As a newbie I started with an Apple Watch then switched to a humble forerunner. But I feel like I now need more detailed metrics and maps, would dream of getting an epix pro 47.
Hey friends at the running channel, great video, sometimes with so many models it can be confusing! I would love to have the high tech stats that the forerunner 965 S provides but can't afford it. Hopefully I can be the lucky winner! 🤞🤞
I'd love if the Instinct 2 X had onboard music, it would then be my perfect watch. Audio prompts to keep you on target, music to keep you motivated and garmin pay for the coffees and cake after your parkrun 🤪
For maps navigation which one is better between forerunner 965 and epix gen2 pro?
If I could get the FR955 Solar then it would be a dream since my mum is going to get her knee surgery soon so I can't afford to spend on watch now and my current FR945 had suffer infinite boot loop. I've just started running again 3.5 months ago with my FR945 (owned for 3 years 1 month) because I've been having trouble sleeping. Now my sleep had improved a lot and at the same time shed around 6kg so far. It feels great to be back on my local running track but I really did not expect it to quit on me so soon.
I’ve been running with an Apple Watch for the last 8 years and after really getting into running properly this year I’d love to train with a Garmin forerunner 265s as I think it would really help me with my half marathon training for my half marathon in February 2024.
It seems like the overall best one and could be great for helping me plan since I just started running and get exhausted in a few minutes
I've been running with my Forerunner 55, I guess it has everything I need. The only feature I would like is music, so i'd like to up grade to the Fr255 music
Started running 4 years ago, come on quite a bit since but my trusty Garmin 745 I bought back then is starting to die a death (battery life is fading and now starting to show low battery when I have 50%+ left 😂) could definitely do with an upgrade to the 965.
My fitness status is little bit weak. So i'm trying to improve that. But I can't track my progress. So I always think about garmin 255 or 265 watch. If have a chance to have it, that is gonna be the best thing I have ever happened in this christmas.
Garmin Forerunner265🔥
Newbe hear ready to ditch my Apple Watch for sure. Not yet sure which one is for me but leaning to the venu 3. Bit sure if the Forerunner 965 also shows messages and pictures in the messenger. Also how it performs in the gym. And does it also has the new gen heart rate sensor? Great video thank you
Because I am training for a marathon at the moment, the forerunner 965 would improve my training routine by fare. Thanks for the nice content all the time and the giveaway
The forerunner 965 has to be the best watch for a runner! I think that’s the next watch I’m going to buy!
I’m the owner of a 47mm Garmin Epix gen 2. A gift for my birthday (which was yesterday). I’m only watching these videos because I want to find out how this thing works. I’m a 10-20 mile per week runner. Longest run 5 miles. A fenix pro 51mm would be my choice.
I'd love to try out the Forerunner 965 at Rotterdam marathon next year ⌚️
Using an Apple Watch for my running as of right now, I’ve been wanting to switch to the forerunner 265 since it came out but mentally having a hard time dishing out that $450 for a new watch. A garmin would improve my running immensely for Philly marathon 2024 !
I would love to try a Fenix or something with all of the fitness profiles plus solar!
I started running again after 6.5yrs due to two tough pregnancies. I started up gradually and I've been running for 9weeks now and reached my 5k goal of under 30min. Now I'm amped to keep going! I used to do a 5k under 19min 😅 I lost all interest in running and now I have refound it. I live on a small island so travel is our escape and different terrain and locations is the challenge! I'm a 42 yo mom of two Beautiful girls and I need to keep up with them 😂 I would love to try a fitness watch, especially with maps and a light (when its dark is when I get to go out). So I would LOVE a spoil like the Fēnix 7 pro 42mm (s).
I've always looked at the fényx 7 as a potential upgrade, aiming to do more trail running. But the Enduro 2 is absolutely bonkers ! I'm afraid that kind of metric would give me the urges to do an ultra marathon. Which im definetly not ready for...
I started running this February, and I'm still not sure my running style is. My longest run was 16km, which I  run in 2 hours and 15 minutes last month. I planned to cover 21km before I reached 50 well I an 48 years old this year. I'm happy to try the Forerunner 965 due to is coaching system.
I like the smaller size option of the 255s because I have a small wrist but I am starting to do more trail runs so I think the 955 is going to be the better option for me...just wish it came in a smaller size.
I think I would like the Forerunner 965 it has all the features I would ever want
I've been training with a forerunner 245 music, but I'd love to upgrade to the 965
Got Venu 2 and looking at using it to the max and then maybe switching to 265 or epix…is it worth if I just run and hike? (Winning here would mean I could try the epix ones 😂)
I've been running here and there for a few years and would really like to take my running to the next level. Would love to win the Forerunner 265s 🎉.
The Forerunner 255 would be perfect for me 🚀🏃‍♂
forerunner 965 would be amazing just because navigation  for round trip route
I bought the Coros Pace 3 but the heart rate sensor was broken. I tested it a few days and wasn’t so happy with some features. That’s why I want to upgrade. I can’t decide between Forerunner 965 and the Fenix 7 Pro Solar. The latter is on sale for 550€. I want to track running but also other sports.
I’m quite an experienced runner and I’ve enjoyed the forerunner 255, but looking at the 965, that could be a great upgrade. From the giveaway of course 😅
Don't currently use a watch of any kind. I do a lot of walking and hiking, so the Instinct 2s seems best, but I am constantly trying to get back into running, so I think, for me, the Forerunner 55 is best for price and function for a low-level runner.
I'd love to get an upgrade on my Forerunner 245, preferably the 955 or 965
Just finished couch to 5k not too long ago and aiming for the 10k in London in Feb. Partner has also got into running, trying to convince her to get a garmin, maybe a 3s or 265s, instead of her fitbit which doesn't have GPS. One day maybe she'll get an Epix gen2! Out of our price range for now.
I currently have a Forerunner 945 but it's not holding its charge so well these days. I would love an upgrade to a Fenix 7 pro.
I’m new to running and have no smart watch or fitness watch. I’d love the forerunner 55 as an intro to the range and help with my 10k training
Started running 2 years ago as a way to lose some weight, next year I'll try my first 100k ultra marathon(Beskydska 7), so Enduro 2 for that would be probably perfect, but I think my trusty fenix 7 Pro will handle it near identical!!
Does the training and coaching from the forerunner also carry through to the fenix and epix ??
Just got the forerunner 265S. It plays music but would have been nice to have an option to pay less for a non music version like on the forerunner 255. I would love a FR965 if I win BTW
Our household has a Forerunner 55 and 245 and we'd love to win a watch for an upgrade! These models lack the Fenix 7's capabilities and features, and it'd be a great upgrade to have the strength workout tracker.
I have an older foreruuner watch, but i would be very interested in the forerunner 965 with amoled display and  the host of additional metrics as my ageing 50 plus years eyes would certainly appreciate the clearer brighter display.
Ive started runningh with classic smart watches but  now I fallen in love with running and my old watches usually die during my long runs😢…so dear Santa I wish the forerunner 265 for my future university sport carrier and I would be finally able to sign myself for full marathon without excuses!!  PS:I would be the happies person on the world ❤❤❤ Thank you for helpfull video!
I would love to give one of venue, vivoactive, forerunner or even Fenix or epix to my girlfriend. We always do all sorts of activities together. Kayaking, hiking, swimming. She used to have a smartband, which unfortunately broke down. Since then she doesn't have any fitness tracker. She says that she will buy a Garmin watch when she will be able to afford it, but no luck so far.
Before her smartband broke down she used to run a fair bit. Maybe not on a competitive level but it made her happy to see the progress. Right now she doesn't run at all. She says, she doesn't feel the motivation, when she doesn't have a tangible visualization of her progress. :/
The Forerunner 265S would be something for me, as Im heading for my second Marathon year.
I really like the sleep tracking on the vivo and the venue 3. But I think I like the Enduro more.
I've never had a running watch before but I've destroyed a number of Fitbits. I think the Forerunner 55 fits my needs well but all of them sound awesome.
I currently use an Apple Watch to track runs, but it’s not great at linking with Strava for things like laps and splits. I’m due to run 135miles in 5 days for charity in April and am considering a garmin as a more accurate tracker of distance/pace etc. which garmin do you suggest is best? I’m an “entry level runner” on average normally run a couple of 5kms and a 10km a week
   I love the out doors,  skiing ⛷️ once a year, cycle and run regularly through the year and often go walking/hiking.   I’ve also been known to roller blade.  Therefore a Garmin Fenix 7 Solar would get well used.
Wanna get back into running and think Forerunner 965 will be the best option for me.
"Heellow " Andy and team.Any forerunner series watch(may be 55 or 265).
 Late again to an opportunity but it takes nothing to try I am not a pro  just a teenager have been running for 4 year but never more than 3 km until some days before when I completed my first 5k in arround 33min.
Since I stared running again after becoming a mom via an super long IVF traject I really want to step up my game and use the forerunner 265 to be able to run 21.1K next year
I'd love to get the forerunner 965. I have a the venu 2 and I do kinna regret having the running specific features that forerunners have.
This was a very insightful video. I would love the chance to win the forerunner 965.
I am to say the least big into running lol, I currently just use the basic Venu Sq, but looking to upgrade to the 265, or 965 mainly for the maps, as I do a lot of longer runs on the trails at times, but also hate taking my phone with to only check maps 😂
With the goal of running my first marathon in 2024, a fore runner would be a great asset❤
I would love the Forerunnner 965 to help get me back in shape.
Would love the forerunner 965
I would love to have a Garmin for runner 965 ...for my half marathon training..hope i get a chance to win one
Hello i am a triathlete i have never used a garmin watch i would like to maybe try and use the garmin fenix7 solar 47mm!! Wish you all luck and goood runs
Currently running with a third hand forerunner 235 having damaged my  premium Garmin watch so I would love the opportunity of getting a 965 to replace it just before Christmas
I’d love to upgrade to a Fenix pro or an Epix pro. My forerunner 245 is showing its age, and is surprisingly limited in what mountain sports it’ll actually track 😢
I’ve recently started running again but i also love to go hiking and would therefore love to win the fenix 7s pro
Started to run few months back and still looking out if I need a watch or not.
I am actually a person that do so many sport in the day like outdoor running and hiking and indoor fitness and I am the kind of person that who doesn't charge his watch a lot I like Garmin Fenix 7
I'm currently on my second Garmin, a  Forerunner 255. It's great for runs (obviously), but also hikes, cycle and cardio. I dont know anyone with a Garmin who isn't impressed with it!
Not sure if the giveaway is still going on but i started running once my college soccer career came to an end and currently us the apple watch series 4. I’ve been looking into watches and really want a watch from the forerunner series preferably the 965 or 955 solar but just can’t justify paying those prices on my college student money. I’d be cool if the giveaway was still going on and maybe i won but none the less a great video! And yall have inspired me more to get a new watch! Love the channel and i love running!
After many years of running and chasing the latest tech (that I can afford) I’ve had the 310XT, the 755 and currently the Fenix 5. I find the metrics on the Fenix to be pretty unreliable as far as temperature, altitude, etc. go to the point where I’ve had to learn to ignore them. The temperature reading does tend to be about 2 degrees higher than actual so I can get a rough idea but when my watch tells me that I started my run at 50m below sea level and finished at 30m below sea level (which is actually at the same place) I can’t hold any value to the information until I use Strava to correct the readings.
New to running and the Garmin watch line appears to have more diversity then the average smart watch market has to offer.
Having struggled with being overweight most of my life, I started running. I've done a 10k last year a half this year, I'm booked into the New Forest marathon next year (thanks for the inspiration from your video) and planning an Ultra for my 60th in 2025. 
hi thx for the video, but its still a tuff choice ultimately I'd like the Enduro 2 but its a bit pricy and I'm not sure if I'll ever run a 250 miler to really benefit from it, then theres the Fenix options and the 965. Now if I was going fastpacking for say 5 days I'd defiantly take a power bank with me and being in Norway I can't rely on sun so then the solar it not a benefit so I'm back to the cheaper brighter 965 as its got 31 hour gps and I can charge it at night with my power bank and its the most affordable one
Great breakdown of all the features! I've had my eye on the Forerunner 965 since it came out, but I just can't justify spending that much money on myself. I always end up buying the version that's being replaced to save a bit of cash. Such is the life of a teacher/student. Ha! *day later edit* I think watching/commenting on this jinxed me. Just realized that the Vivoactive 3 no longer keeps accurate time...? Synced. Updated. Did all the things. Sigh.
I would choose forerunner 955 ❤
The 255 is the sweet spot as a pure running watch. Good price, 99% of the features, no Amoled nonsense.
Being using the VIVOACTIVE 4S for the last 2 years. It would be a great improvement to get a FORERUNNER 965 ;)
@runningchannel where was the winner announced? i've been checking literally every day and haven't seen it
I don’t need too many apps tbh, but I would love a watch with a tracking map/routes feature. I hate running with my phone ☺️
Forerunner 265S is my dream watch. I bought second hand Fenix 3 as my first sport watch and that is so big and heavy I can't wear it on my everyday life.
I wanted a garmin forerunner 55, but they must not sell it in Canada as I cannot find any. So I have a Polar M2
If I could, ask Santa to upgrade to the 965. I have a 945 that I got it second-hand for £100 and was great for getting into running to take me from 1km to 5km, then 10km to finally 21km, being half marathon now concidering upgrading to help me achieve a sub 2hour half with the extra peace pro and hill pro features to help me get around the hills of abp southampton half marathon under 2 hours. 😂
I’d love to get the Forerunner 965
Garmin forerunner 965
Have been using my Apple watch to track my runs but think its time to change to a 265 or a 965
I'd go with the Venu 3S to fit my my skinny runners wrist!
I'm a beginner but I wouldn't pick the Forerunner 55 because I know I'd just want the model one or two up the range within a week😂
Amazing video! This channel helped me discover my passion for running and I am forever grateful. I currently have an old Apple Watch and have been thinking about switching over to Garmin for months. Winning this giveaway would mean the world to me. I am also in the US Navy so the durability would be great. I am really interested in the forerunner series specifically the 965. Thanks for helping me on my running journey.
Trying to get back in to running after injury, illness and having a baby! The forerunner 965 would help!
One of the big misses on the Forerunner 55 is that it doesn't have an activity for strength training. Dunno how they missed that
By watching the video Im very interested in Instinct 2 ( 50 mm ) , but I haven't ran with smart watches or any watches on my wrist I carry My phone and before getting a phone I just check the Wall clock for time when I leave my room for running, just like that i am  28 years old,
Are the running watches suitable for swimming as well?
I would love to have a forerunner 965 to replace my Apple Watch Ultra as I really miss some metrics
Damn. I would need some crossover between Instinct and Forerunner. I don't care about running, but I like the maps. But I also like the ruggedness and undestructibility of the Instinct :-(.
Forerunner 965 would be a lovely upgrade
Can’t fault my trusty forerunner 245 (wouldn’t turn down a cheeky giveaway watch tho 😂)
Forerunner 265 that's the best watch for my capabilities
Good video, but your overview is incomplete - you have forgotten to mention Garmin Marq series watches! Thats a garmin luxury sport watch addressing runners who love to have an estetically pleasing watch with luxury finisch.
I’d love to win the Forerunner 55!
I would go for the 965 solar or the Fênix 7 pro to improve my running skills on nature ou city  like  jeep i like all terrain
Currently training to go to the 2025 U20 european championships in the 5k, and a good running watch would be nice to have
I’d love to win the forerunner 965 to help me achieve my very ambitious half marathon goals 👍🙏
I would like to upgrade my forerunner 245 to the forerunner 965 👌🤞
I am legally blind and thanks to your video. I know the watch that I need for my runs.
Garmin Forerunner 265
Fenix is derived from Phoenix a mythical bird that is born again from the flames and is symbolic of a new start. I have an old iPhone that I have to run around grasping to look at my times and data - it’s battery can barely last a Parkrun and I have arthritic knees that compete with the phone to see which will fail first. I need the cleansing fire and new beginnings of the Fenix 7 pro to bring new life to my running journey.
Forerunner 965 was the one i wanted to get if I did have unlimited cash. i prefer using the buttons in most cases as touch screens tend to have issues during the rain which i why i prefer the forerunner range which have a touch screen on the higher end ones as a extra
I am looking for a new watch for a long time now and have my eyes as a runner on the Forerunner 265 because of the amoled screen, the battery life and the light weight. For me the maps feature in the 965 isnt important.
Even a serious athlete doesn't really need to look beyond the Forerunner 55 for a high quality athlete watch that tracks all the necessary data.
I'd love to win the Forerunner 965!
I’d love a Forerunner 265 🐻
I’d love a Forerunner 265 🐻
Hei guys. Witch watch would you reccomend for tracking steps,light running and biking? On journey to become a fit person, 20 kgs down till now 😂
Would love to win a Forerunner 965 to help me with my training for Berlin marathon next year! 🤞🏼
Instict 2 is perfect match for my way of life, 50% runner and 50% hikker....
Forerunner 265
Buy once cry once: FR 965 or Fenix pro Solar Sapphire or Epix pro Gen 2 Sapphire. The latter two will be heavier for most runners.
Forerunner 965 for me please!!
I would trade my Coros Pace 1 for a Forerunner 965 in a heartbeat
I'd love a fenix 7 to replace my forerunner 645
forerunner 965 would be the one for me
Garmin watches are best for runners surely.
Fenix 7 Pro all the way getting lost on Cumbrian fells is no fun ( or is it ? ) this time or year the Garmin map functions are really good for fell running.
I would absolutely cry If I got the forerunner 55🥹 18:20
I'd upgrade my forerunner 245 to the 965.
I would keep it simple and get the forerunner 55.
🎅 Forerunner 265 ✅
A chance to win a Garmin? Don't mind if I do! :) A Forerunner 965 would be a nice upgrade, I think.
Forerunner 265 please! Lol
I wish Garmin would make a square Forerunner
Hello, can I please win the Garmin Forerunner 965? Would greatly appreciate it, cheers! haha keep up the great work!
I would LOVE a 265.... been ogling them for months in the hope i can one day afford one. Started running when I became widowed as a way of dealing with emotions and headspace and not stopped. Not fast or particularly good but the mental health benefits far excel any medication 😊
I've never had a Garmin before. I want a Forerunner 965, but in Indonesia it costs around ten million rupiah. very unaffordable for me. Ahahaha 😐
This is why I can't buy into Garmin - the range of models is absurd/confusing/unclear. It's quite incredible that Garmin's own website doesn't include filtering for battery life, running type (e.g. want to do just short runs, or ultras?), etc.
I must admit, I love the Running Channel, but I feel these Garmin-related videos watch like pure infomercials. I recognize how sponsored content is often necessary, but these often present as purely adds for a Company and not sincere Running Channel content.
You need to have a word with the person who chooses your title pic.  "Oi guv! Wanna buy a cheap running watch? ..only one careful owner.....can't run anymore..real bargain"
@runningchannel Was this draw to win a Garmin done yet?
During any given amazing run in any given beautiful space, I'm sick of getting my already battery-tired phone out of my sad little waist bag, fumbling around with the passcode as I slow down to a short and lustless limp. I eventually give in, stop and for the first time in a while notice myself trying to catch my breath as I successfully enter Fort Knox and as quickly as possible do whatever it is that has required me to stop - check my pace, distance, heart rate, where i'm heading to, what on earth I am doing at the top of this hill, reply to my partner, worry about something else, take a picture, oh I may as well take a video as well, reply to the reply from my partner, yes I will pick up dinner, check a recipe online, go on then i'll check the news as well, oh god oh god oh god, one more photo, another check of the route because i've forgotten by now, worry about how my average pace is being affected, wow look at the time (struggling to do so in the corner of my wet phone screen), and realise that I better get moving again because I havent felt my feet for a while. After taking stock of the preview of emails that will worry me for the rest of my run, I slide my soggy phone back into my belt, trap the ties on my shorts in the zip, take my gloves off in order to fix the problem, and finally do the awkward lunge of setting off once again, with my heart and lungs finding it difficult to keep up as they had assumed they were in phone scrolling mode. Would you believe it? I've forgotten where i'm going again. And after one more stop - phone's dead. I guess my partner will be worrying for the next few hours. And i'll be getting lost!
Or I could simply glance at my wrist and my Forerunner 965, keeping moving as i do all of the essentials with ease and poise, and not being distracted by anything else that can wait until i'm back at the car, the route to which is beautifully communicated to me via my lovely watch, glistening with dignity in the onslaught of British rain.
After using the apple watch for awhile now, I am itching to have more advanced metrics. The forerunner 265 looks like a good in between for the pro features without going too crazy with all the added navigation features that I probably can't use in the city.
Garmin has too many watches. They all tell time and have GPS. Venu, Vivoactive, Fenix, Epix, Forerunner, Instinct. Just a stupid company. They need to simplify their offerings.
Garmin Forerunner 965: https://www.playbetter.com/products/garmin-forerunner-965-gps-running-triathlon-smartwatch?ghref=2301%3A529694
I Tested the Top 5 Running Watches | Marathon Prep: https://youtu.be/kyEfwiANrfk
I Wore 18 Fitness Trackers... This One's Best!: https://youtu.be/qc094OLDdFM
I Wore 22 Sleep Trackers... This One's Best!: https://youtu.be/iNoYImNwKO0
My Plan to Run a Sub-5 Minute Mile @ 200 lbs: https://youtu.be/woqOEmV6wVE
Hey Shervin, great video! Just wanted to mention that the track run mode on Garmin watches isn't based on maps. It "learns" the track after the first run. After the first run it should be an almost perfect oval.
Having a Forerunner 55 since 10 days I'm already watching the reviews of higher specs model and yours are very interesting
I have been running for years and I finally have been looking for a high quality running watch. Thanks for the video bro! I am gonna order one now!
Good video, thank you! I would note too that Garmin watches hold up a LONG time!!! As do apple products, to be fair. (I'm an huge android fan!) In the last 10 plus years, I'm only on my 2nd garmin watch. I forgot the first model, but my 630 still lasts WEEKS without needing to be charged! I bought it refurbished. But, my work is offering a health incentive, so I can actually look at new watches. An HR wrist based watch with storage for music/audiobooks so I don't have to run with my phone, sounds great! Built in golf tracking. And a tracking map when I go hunting, so I don't get lost. I definitely think i'll go with the 965!!!
Awesome video as always . One question I have is you mention Apple Health is your main health app that catches all data , what if you do a run on Apple Watch do you some how get that loaded on Garmin Connect to keep your training status updated or your not to concerned with connect ?  Thanks
Great "average fitness person" review! Thinking about the 965 for the screen. I don't do iron mans or ultra marathons, just gym and bike a little, and I have the forerunner 935 for the battery life, and dont use my apple watch (4) as its just one more thing to charge everyday. I would get apple watch ultra, but i always have my phone, so there's no benefit for me. Like your channel, keep up the good work!
I’m between Forerunner 965 and a Fenix 7 Solar (or sapphire)
I’m using it to trailrun/train/lift in prep for Spartan Beast as well as being able to know where I am miles wise when doing the beast. Also an avid backpacker but I already have an In Reach. 
Thank you so much for this... lots of my friends recommended the Forerunner 965 to me. However, my Apple Watch is still okay. I'm not a professional athlete, so the Apple Watch suffices for my needs. Just thinking about running a marathon, when it comes to battery life, I have to admit that the Apple Watch only lasts until 30 kilometers (while listening to music and podcasts).
Interesting I have rarely ever had to manually import things into Strava from my Apple Watch Ultra. Workouts, runs, walks have always auto imported for me.
Just got the watch  normally a just use strava on my iphone. Went on a 8mile run today but the watch was 2mins slower than my phone  so baffled a bit to know whats  more accurate.
Stress and body battery scores are underrated features on the garmin watches. I hear a lot about the sleep scores as being important, which it is I suppose (although I don't use it), the body battery is very helpful info. The body battery is a by-product of all the other stuff I suppose.
I actually use the Instict Solar. That thing is rugged. Own a Forerunner 255, but I only use it on intense training sessions to grab training performance data I can't get from the Instinct Solar. To be honest with you, all of these Garmin Watches do the exact same basic things and they're essentially bike computers on the wrist.
Please tell me i have ordered garmin 955  forerunner on Amazon. İs it good?
How would you compare this to the fenix 6s pro solar? I "upgraded" back in april to the fenix from the forerunner 935 and the battery life on the fenix is absolutely horrendous
Does the watch have acrued time? So you get a break down of per mile also with the combined time of 2 miles, 3 miles, 4 miles to what ever distance u run.
Liked the review…..one thing you should be aware of (more in terms of comparison than anything else) is there are countries such as her in Ireland where carriers don’t support e-SIM, so the advantages of the Apple Watch ultra fall away.   You still need a phone with you for Cell service etc to respond to texts to download from Spotify.   So when you take that away from the Apple Watch it becomes an average fitness watch with appalling battery life and the Garmin is streets ahead.
I’m looking at either getting the Garmin fenix 6 pro or the forerunner 955. I want something that will be good for occasional backpacking with no service with a good battery life, but is also great for everyday wear and running with great navigation. Is the 955 good for all of these things or should I go with the fenix 6 pro?
8:00 I'd argue that the *first best* way of controlling your music while you're running is through buttons/sliders/whatever on your headphones. It's much more convenient to double press a button on my Shokz for next song or change the volume there than fiddling on my watch or even phone.
Any negative experiences with the HR or sleep tracking? From The Quantified Scientist’s testing, they didn’t seem accurate
Not correct about Apple workout app not uploading directly to Strava. The workout app will upload straight to Strava, you just hit save on the run in the Workout app and it uploads to Strava. Depending on whether u have cellular or not, it may need to be near your phone to do this though.
HRV, stress load are useful for multi-sport when you have to stack the workouts (8-12 workouts a week), not just running...
I have an Apple Watch and it syncs automatically with Strava when I finish a run.
Garmin also has the Body Battery feature, which compiles all the data from the watch to give you a rough idea of your limits and the extent to which an event (like a workout or stress) impacts your body. It also helps you understand aspects like sleep debt, and more.
This dude runs with 10 watches on. My takeaway is to get 5  plus watches in order to get the best smartwatch experience and wear them all simultaneously lol.
I’m not a runner at all, I’m doing cycling more and the usual things that humans do, between the newest Apple Watch series 9 that will be out, or a 265 that I think will fulfill my needs, what do I choose ? 
will this watch work for a walker 80 miles + per week or is this watch just specifically for runners only?
If you crave a smartwatch over a dedicated fitness watch, it imply that you are lacking in fitness or not fit enough.
Track running today, start , stop, save...activity on watch, on garmin connect just a move iq, nothing else....everything else sync ok. I start to regret buying this product.
If you wear an Apple Watch, you aren't serious about fitness.
I swear this guy is the worst fitness trackers reviewer ever
Stress and body battery are used to help determine your training readiness from Garmin, and the morning run down is part of that. Stress can also help peopel realize the things they do to hold back training (Drinking alcohol, eating too much, so on) as they will see the stress spike and it helps people learn what is bad for them. Body battery is a great indicator of sleep, stress, and readiness. Morning routine has rolled out to almost every garmin device, and is well recived, but you cna check the stats with garmin on that.  These are also built in, you do not need a 3rd party app that you have ot pay for to track these things 
Hi.. just want to know, between venu 2 plus and forerunner 265, which one have longer battery life?
When I go a easy run that is my current 5k pb is 18:57 so my easy pace is around 5:20 to 5:40  so when I do the easy runs in these paces then my Garmin says the heart rate above aerobic zone,so is it good or Garmin say wrong?
I have had Forerunner 255, and 265 this month and just ordered the 955 today. Forerunner 265 has a nicer screen compared to 255, however, I have noticed a consistent delay when accessing workout statistics and sometimes when switching back to the watch face from the menu. This could be due to the fact that the processor in the Forerunner 265 is the same as in the Forerunner 255, potentially having difficulties in rendering more pixels (and silly animations) because I never experience this with 255. The 265 battery life lasts around 3 days with always-on enabled and about 8 days without it.
I discovered that the Fenix watches are heavy on wrist, cold when minus degrees, bad light and bad vibration. I would go woth a forerunner 255 music or something like that instead.
Hi everyone. Good review. Here is my like. My vote goes to Forerunner 255. A nice weekend for everyone. ⌚🏃🌞
Garmin is not a health tracker at all. It says I’m sleeping when I’m watching tv and then going to the toilet before actually going asleep . Furthermore it misses hr by 30bpm compared to Polar h10.
You guys need to do an awards episode.  Best of the year.  Best value.  Best running / fitness.  Best smartwatch.  Best battery life.  Etc.
If Garmin could add cellular capabilities for messaging and calls as well as strong vibrations/tones for notifications that could match Apple Watch then it would be a no brainer for me instead of being stuck on the fence between full blown smart watch or full blown fitness watch
Very cool you both collaborate. Would love to see you each speak with Product Managers from Garmin, Casio, Citizen, and Apple about the convergence of fashion watches and fitness trackers.
I am loving my FR 965. I use it for fitness, running, indoor rowing, hiking and motorcycling. It does everything I need and want it to do, and it is very comfortable to wear with the nylon strap.
Guys I have spent the last 3 months reviewing options to replace my Apple Watch (series 7) with a focus on health, fitness and outdoor activities. I was all over the Garmin map (no pun intended). I don’t need phone capabilities, so I ended up with the Fenix 6 pro solar (reconditioned). With all your info on both your channels, I am confident about the choice for me. I just want to say “Thank you”.
Unfortunately I was ultimately unable to attend the morning run or visit the cave. Hopefully we will meet again next year.
1:27:48 I have one of the bands - it takes some time, probably a few months, but it broke in to a point where it’s comfortable, but it is still stiff. I can tell you now that it’s comfortable on the size that I always wear it on, and if I had to change it, I would notice it because of how stiff the band it. Saying that, I like to wear a silicone band when I run or swim as it’s easier to clean and dry, but I often forget to switch it because of how comfy this band is now. It’s also really hard wearing, which, for the intended use and what I use it for, is key.
I’ve worn the Forerunner and then Fenix/Tactix series (always the large versions) for years, and picked up the Epix Pro Sapphire 51mm this year, particularly due to the battery life. While the Epix Pro 51mm equals or betters the Fenix 7 Pro in battery life with always-on turned off, there is still the gap, of course, with it turned on (although 11 days’ life is incredible). I am interested to see whether Garmin somehow merges the Fenix and Enduro lines and comes up with a MIPS model with even better battery life, or whether they focus on improving AMOLED battery life and eventually drop the MIPS watches altogether. It would be neat to see an Enduro 3 with updated HR sensor and better-than-Fenix 7 Pro battery life.
Hello Guys, Thank you very much for this great review. I have a question, What is your recommendation for a watch that is good for fitness, HR and tracking sleep. (Not necessary a smartwatch, I rarely use my phone actually) … Thank you so much guys for always sharing your knowledge 🙏🏼
What about surfing with the Forerunner 965?  I love the larger screen and slimmer base on it vs. the Epix.
Another fantastic review from you and Des. I'm curious, though. Other than just being better at something, whether it's heart rate data, GPS or whatever...what else is out there that has become the carrot to chase which nobody or hardly anyone has done up to this point? With all the stuff these things can do, I'm just wondering what is left, other than maybe LTE for all fitness watches.
So what yall think? AMOLED or MIP Display? Wanting to get into a higher end watch like a 965 or 955 for running, xc skiing, fitness and smartwatch features...i like a big readable screen but is it possible to set the 965 always on while doing activity?
Have this year finally replaced my old FR235 (I was very much a beginner runner so my decision at the time was between that and the FR45) with a Fenix 7X Pro (as I'm now going past HM to Marathons and ultras).
What’s the best bang for buck as a back up /standby watch in the Garmin eco system. I run a tactix daily but thinking the Garmin swim (I do a lot of swimming) as I can carry on when I send it back
Des's Sapphire option on the forerunner 9xx series is a good one. I'd buy it. I'd also like to see better smartwatch features such as improvements to both text_email handling and turn-by-turn Google Maps navigation. Plus the latest HR sensor of course.
Would you buy the vivoactive 5 or epix gen 2? I can get epix (gen2) for £350 or vivo 5 for £230 I really only want it for weight training and sleep coach
I think sleeper watch of 2023 is Garmin 255, you get all the metrics and dual band gps, great battery life and price now is unbeatable for what you get.
Unfortunately Polar seems to be loosing the momentum. I transferred from my Polar Vantage V2 to the Garmin 965 after years of being a Polar fan since their usb connection to their Polar Trainer PC software years ago. I would think that Polar would have something to expand on their Fitness Testing and Recovery programs
What would you recommend between the two: Forerunner 265 or Forerunner 955?
You tend to find forerunner series (looks, and lightweight) and instinct series (disgusting battery life) on the wrists of actual operators.  
Can you push next time the Pixel Watch team to include more things like interval training for running next time?
What is some of your top rated watches? We would love to see your top picks for budget, running, hiking, smartwatch ect.
im most concerned about heart rate tracking and diversity of workout types tracking (not just running)
I’m not loyal to Garmin, but Garmin just keeps putting out watches that cover all the bases. Would have loved me a Coros Pace 3 or a Suunto vertical or even a polar vantage v3. I need ant+ along with Bluetooth sensor compatibility. Then Garmin also is implementing the offline maps better than anyone. Then you have the music. Both mp3 and deezer Spotify Amazon. Anything out there other than Garmin that’s better than my Forerruner 955? I’m not an amoled display guy. Nothing to do with the battery life. Just prefer not to have a smartwatch looking watch on my wrist. ID actually prefer the instinct 2 solar if it had all the features of my 955
Anectodal evidence supporting the Suunto Vertical optical HR findings comes from my own testing. I have a Suunto Vertical, Garmin Fenix 7 solar sapphire and a garmin forerunner 965. The Suunto HR is absolutely horrible. Always reads wildly high. The garmin watches alse tend to run high in some very specific use cases, but removing the watch from my wrist, letting the hr reading zero out, and putting the watch back on always solves those issues. I have never found a fix for the Suunto, and with all the training features and metrics the app supportsbeing largely based on HR reading during an activity, that is a major major bummer. I would have that watch on my wrist right nowas the build quality is waybetter than Garmin, and i like the training metrics better, and the battery life is insane, but the HR sensor just breaks the deal for me
No Huawei GT4 ?? Big mistake..great running device with way better HR tracking than most Garmins.
I have the Forerunner 255. I tried out the Venu 2 Plus but it didn't have all the performance measurements for training. So I couldn't have it for long. The Forerunner 255 solves those problems. I mainly use the Instinct Solar, insane battery performance on that.
I have been test driving the Epix Gen2 Pro Sapphire and absolutely love it. going on 16 days out of the box without a charge! It still states I have 5 days left which is amazing. I'm used to my galaxy watch 5 pro lasting 1-2 days max and not doing half as good a job with fitness tracking. Needless to say, I've converted. The Epix is statying!
Forerunner 955
Good video but forerunners are not mentioned, big oversight imho!
forerunner 255/955
I have the Fenix 7S Pro Sapphire Solar.  I chose Fenix over Epix because i have tiny wrists and can only wear the S so i didn't want to sacrifice more battery life to AMOLED.  I really really really love it 😊 it tracks all my workouts and my hikes, my swims, my sleep, it's got everything i need.
there';s no forerunner series
Thank your for your in-depth videos! Both this video and the comparison video of the Venu 3 and Forerunner 265 helped me making a decision regarding my purchase :)
Des you are my favorite reviewer of YouTube. Would be interesting a comparison between this watch and the forerunner 965. They looks so close
Awesome! Didn't got if it has automatic DND while sleeping. Thx
The sleep coach is pretty interesting! Great video again!
Awesome review. Looking forward to the forerunner comparison, so I subscribed 🎉
I have Venu 3S. It honestly is the best lifestyle tracking+fitness watch that I've had and it's also the best looking one.
Is that sleep coach gonna come to the epix ? That’s cool
Any input if the sleeping coach would be coming to the 265 or the venu 2/2+?
12:12 wasn't this feature already available in the newer forerunners? (55s and 65s)?
Nice review, Des!  I'm guessing they did not offer training load metrics as that would cannibalize sales of the Forerunner 265.  Does that sound accurate?  Looks nice and it has tennis!
I wish they made a Fenix watch that looked like this and had the voice function. The venu is lacking too many features for the price…and I want gps maps and Backcountry skiing mode. I guess Forerunner 965 is the best in between. Or AWU… but neither seems as rugged as a Fenix/Epix with sapphire glass. And Venus look great.
Will nap feature come to the forerunner 965 eventually?
Does it mean that we can use Garmin Running Dynamics pod with Venu 3 now?
Hope the the steps Count is more accurate... On the Venu 2 music it counts step in sleep.
Could you do a video comparing venu 3 to the forerunner 965. 
Does the nap also have a score and is added to sleep score at the end of the day?
Will some of the new software features get rolled back into Venu2 / 2 Plus? Like the sleep coaching, body battery etc etc..
Any update on the 8 sleep? I'm thinking of getting one.
Could you do a Venu 3 vs Forerunner 265 comparison? I am now going back and forth between the two, because it looks like they are so similar. Thanks!
Thanks for the review ! Can't wait for the comparison with the 265 now to decide which one to buy. I don't run, but I want to buy a watch for cycling. Which one would fit the bill better according to you ? Also, I didn't quite understand the last part about VO2 Max. Can you get it with the venu 3 or not ? Do you need a power meter ? Is there a difference on this side with the 265 ?
Does the exercise information feed into the Apple fitness app?
No trail running mode?
Hi, when i'd like to use both an Vivo 3 and an Epix pro (Venu 3 with it's Smartphone Features as a "Daily Driver" and the Epix for longer Sportstours..), is there ONE "Trainings-Readyness and  Trainingsstatus" in the Connect App? What about the Sleeptracking? Has this to be done always with the same watch?  Greetings ✌️
Hi, thank you for the video. Does it show current speed (for instance while running or biking for me to be able to keep the same speed)? Thank you!
Can you have the screen lock during activities like the Forerunner 965?
@DesFit If you don’t care about notifications or phone calls but you care about sport and fitness. What would you choose, the forerunner 965 or this Venu 3? Does this new sensor really make a huge difference?
I’ve watched all the review because I’m new to the channel and because I’m really interested in the new Venue. Unfortunately you didn’t say anything about if sleep tracking is good and reliable or not. And I understand it is not simple as measure hearth it etc but that’s it. If a company pushes a lot about a feature we should find if it’s saying the truth before spending 500$!! Like my samsung Galaxy watch: lots of features and everything but then a lot in sport and health tracking is wrong 😢
Difference with this Venu 3 and Forerunner 265 please Des? I have Venu 1 for 3 years, just bought Forerunner 265 and just don't like it - I can't add my own watch face from the Connect IQ app, can only use faces already on the 265 - Well I definitely don't want that (because of my eyesight, 59 years old). Plus the 265 screen is not as big as I was visually expecting it to be. Many thanks for your fantastic in depth video 🙏😊
I want all the health sensors and fitness sensors, and also I want mp3 music in my watch. Which Garmin (or any other watch) do you recommend? I really don't care about LTE or messages in that watch. Only health and finess (includding VO max, gps tracking (without a cell phone), health reports, etc...). Thank you...
Good review. I don't get though how the Venu 3 is different enough from the Forerunner 265. And both are rather bad value compared to the Pace 3. I enjoy the Garmin ecosystem, it has many motivatiors. But I also feel like they increased their prices sharply over the past 12 months. Not gonna spend close to 500 Euro for a watch when the Pace 3 is HALF of that. I even prefer MIP screens to OLED (currently on an oled watch).
Is it fair to say that the Venu 3 is a better pick over the 265 for someone that does an equal mix of HIIT sprinting/weight lifting/cycling/walks ? It seems like its more of an all-rounder versus the 265 which is very running centric. The 5th gen HR monitor looks like a big upgrade for accurately tracking HR for HIIT hill sprints and weight lifting.
For me one of the most important feature that is missing on Venu2 compared to Forerunner series is the ability to "resume-later". Does that feature exist on Venu3?
still waiting for the venu 3 vs. forerunner 265 comparison 😅
Let’s hope that Garmin does the right thing and bring software updates to the current Venu 2, which includes some of those features. Notably the hrv, recovery and sleep training features. Otherwise Garmin is going to turn into a hot potato brand, which one would just like to drop in favour for brands that continue to support and update their products.
Whats the difference between venu 3 vs forerunner 965?
I am confused. Shall i go with this or forerunner 965?
Venu 3 = FR265 - triathlon + various modes + mic/speaker + sleep coach+ bigger display?
Why compare it to the 265 and not the 965 forerunner?
Hey Des, great review! Do you think we'll get the sleep coach and naps feature on the newly released Fenix Pro and Epix Pro? 
Went back to using a normal watch as much as possible and only my Garmin when running to measure distance and HR. These watches were just too integrated into our lives. Like WTF, everyone should be able to figure out their sleep quality without a tool.
Can this new sleep coach wake you up when it thinks you have already rested well?
@Desfit can you do a comparison between the Forerunner 965/265 and Garmin Venu 3? It would also be a great video seeing as all 3 watches came out within 3 months
* Mapping during running
* Run metrics like cadence
Forerunner 965 or Venu 3?
So still no training load, recovery or advanced running metrics from garmins chest strap? Quite disappointing 😔
8m deeply dissapointed of my Fenix6x pro for not being able to track sleep. Why on earth am i forced to set sleeping interval? I work in shifts and i sleep 2X3-4 hours a day most of the time.
It seems to be a great watch. I don´t like the UI in some parts. The rounded gradient lines in the widget view looks awful, Also some graphs within the widgets (what the hell are the white top corners?) It seems they are playing with UI Rules from early 2000´s just to focus on many colors of the OLED. Looks like made for kids... I wish the would make a better, simple UI. (I also don´t like the UI from the forerunner 965, it also looks childish. I hope, Garmin will let the clear design language in the fenix/epix watches but here, my wish is to bring the bigger, nicer font of Venu+965 watches. I also dislike the 50 euros higher price (germany).
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am a coach with my local running club and also a Scout Leader. The map feature will be very helpful, especially if it works well in the "foresty, foresty or whatever is up there" bits! The more metrics I have for myself, the better coach I can be as I will be able to teach my athletes about them and help them improve. The solar charging will be extremely helpful on Scout camp too. I am also interested in the new HRV. My Dad had a massive heart attack last year and they think it might be hereditary. Great video guys, very informative.
I think I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am running the London Marathon this year after 7/8 failed ballot attempts. 👍👌 Every time I got a rejection I was secretly pleased because I am not a runner, but London is the bucket list dream. 👌👊 I was so shocked to get a place and have started actually taking training very seriously and ran my first half last weekend with a dodgy old FR235. 😄 It would be nice to use the look ahead feature as that sounded really interesting, but I’m not sure about the morning recap as I’m still clinging onto no sleep and recovery habits yet!! Thanks for the info 👌👍
I deserve the FR955 because I’m 60 years old - just started Crossfit less than 3 years ago, but feeling so much more fit and planning to hike the Grand Canyon Rim to Rim in 2 weeks.  YIKES!  Have never owned a fitness watch like this, so stoked about all the help it would offer me! 🤓🙌🏼
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because I love running, walking and generally all types of exercise.  As an older runner, I like the idea of the ‘training readiness’ feature, which would help me undertake my first marathon.  I am also super keen on the size of the watch face, as I won’t have to run with my contact lenses in place. Joys of getting older.
I deserve the new Garmin ForeRunner 955 because I love keeping fit frequently every week with motivation and reviewed used near all features in detail, watch abilities in Run, Cycle, Swim, Walk, Hike, prior to linking with Styrd.
I deserve this watch because I've put major focus into my physical health by taking up a number of sports that I have no tracking against. I started riding, running, hiking and walking on a daily basis. I also started cold water bobbing after a morning run in the beautiful city of Cape Town - to reset my physical and mental well being, I'd love the 955 to brag about my accomplishments in social circles, track my health and become a part of Garmin's statistics to drive development in software updates as well as future devices. I'm also a big bug fan of the brand's devices and would love to be a brand ambassador for Garmin during my fitness regimes.
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I have made a long term commitment to running and have ran at least one mile everyday for the last 290 days. Day 300 is coming up! I typically run more than a mile per day usually about 25 miles per week and a ton of that is trail miles. Thanks for the consideration Garmin! Sweet watch btw!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because after having a spinal op and learning to walk again I’m now defying the doctors expectations and running. I want to do this for me and to inspire others!
I deserve the new Forerunner 95 because I started training for my first ultra marathon back in August of last year. Over 1800km, the birth of our first baby, and the wettest and most humid summer Sydney has seen later, my race got pushed back to October. A new watch would be that extra push needed to keep training strong till raceday.
I deserve a FR955 because.. well I don't really deserve it, but would like to win it so I can use it to hopefully improve my running fitness and smash out some PBs. I love running and listen and watch all i can to help improve my knowledge. Thank you for this opportunity.
I deserve a FR955 because I am in my late 40's, recently decided to get my butt in shape,  lost 130 lbs and in the process picked up running as a result.   The FR955 would be an awesome tool to help me advance in running and train for my first half marathon.
I deserve the new garmin FR955 because I recently got into triathlon after taking a 4 year hiatus from sport due to two hip surgeries I had. I was 12 months off needing a Hip replacement aged 18. All recovered now, this new watch would give the opportunity to explore freedom through running, cycling and swimming and achieve what I never thought would be possible 💜
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I have recently dipped my toes into trail running and need maps in my life so I feel safe and won'tget lost forever! Also about to start a  training block for my first half marathon. But most importantly it would fit perfectly on my Garmin watch tan line! 💛
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I have started training with a method called Maffetone. Extremely frustrating running slow but looking at a shiny new watch might make it a little less painful 👀 looking to complete some half marathons later this year improving my times using this new way of training. 😁
To be honest, I’ve taken up running as a meditation, and exercise training. I really like that this watch has the race day set up and the morning breakdown. Setting up points to let friends and family know where I am in a race when I hit a mark, is great! Also, the find my phone option! 
I deserve a FR955 because I’m taking on the Outlaw Nottingham in July and this watch is made for long days out like that! The addition of the solar charging might relive the small stress that my watch will run out of battery halfway through the marathon (meaning the shame of my Strava not being right..). The race widget sounds awesome for planning & pacing the whole day and it feeds my data geek obsession for recording everything! One more thing, I need a couple of new doorstops and the “seriously dench” instruction manuals sound ideal!
I believe I might deserve the new Garmin FR955 because on Sunday I attempted to run the Edinburgh half marathon and failed pretty miserably. I was on track for a shiny new PB when nature 'called' for the second time that morning... (spicy wagamamas and a can of lager the night before was maybe not the best fuelling strategy 👀). As I was trying to seek out water and a potential portaloo I lost concentration, tripped myself up and almost face-planted. Thankfully I stopped myself, however in the process of doing so I pulled all the tendons in my left foot and had to do a 'hobble-of-shame' to a portaloo with a rather swollen foot and then get a bus to the finish line after only running five miles 🙈 I believe the new Garmin FR955 features such 'up-ahead' could help me in future races to be better prepared and avoid further clumsy scenarios. In addition the live tracking feature would be useful as I had to hobble and wipe my salty tears completely alone on Sunday as there was no event live tracking. The stamina feature could also prove beneficial as there is a strong possibility my stomach upset and lack of concentration were as a result of fatigue and silly pacing.  And finally the mention of the solar battery could also prove very useful as I'm hoping to complete a 70.3 Ironman in September to commemorate the end of my 20's. I think with my tortoise-paced swimming, my inability to clip in to my bike and the fact that I have a purple foot and I'm not sure how/if/when I'll run again, I could do with all the battery-life (and help) I can get to get me to the finish line😬
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I have been doing general running and athletics for my local athletics club for many years. I have competed in both 800m and 1500m and have done reasonably well in both but have lost out many times because I haven’t paced my self correctly. If I were to have this watch I would be able to pace myself better and hopefully get on the top step of the podium more often. Also I have recently entered into my first full triathlon as I have been unable to do one because of being under 16. The watch would really help as my current Garmin 245 does not have a triathlon mode. Having the triathlon mode would also encourage me into doing longer triathlons in the future.
I deserve the new Garmin forerunner 955 because I’ve been working in a hospital Covid unit for the past 2 years now. Been running and dropping weight so far as I gained 60lbs during the pandemic due to high stress in my Covid unit . Thank you
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because last year I decided to have a go at trail running instead of road. For this I picked a half marathon race up 2 munros - and got 6 months of achillies issues for my trouble!
I deserve the new Forerunner 955 because I've had to replace the rubber strap keeper on all my previous Garmin watches, so a Garmin watch that has a replacement in the box is a dream come true.
I deserve the new Garmin forerunner 955 because I am trying to come back to triathlons after having a child and my old 935 is rapidly giving up the ghost. Accurate metrics are such a massive motivator for me as an individual and since my example seems to inspire people around me they also benefit the community.
I deserve a FR955 because for a few years I was running with my phone in pocket, what was really uncomfortable. And even this incovenience I have never bought smartwatch with GPS, but I believe new Garmin might begin a new chapter in my running world. :)
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I’m a high school runners who’s taken my training to the next level. I need this watch, not only to track my runs, but also my heart rate and sleep.
I deserve the new Garmin forerunner 955 because it’s one of the best garmin watches ever! I run in the woods a lot and the gos accuracy on my current watch isn’t that good. Especially when I am doing speed work in the woods the paces aren’t precise, this is annoying since I want to analyse my run as good as possible. The new health features are also something really handy for me, I am a high performance triathlete who trains around 20+ hours while going to school. With these health features I can see if the body is ready for a hard workout or not. The touchscreen is also something which I think is a very nice feature to have, because it will make it easier to do things on your watch.
I believe I deserve the FR955 due to where I’m currently at with my fitness journey. 
I’m now currently training for a 50K run (that is the end of Oct 2022) in aid of the children’s unit at my local hospital as the cause is close to my heart. And now have 2 annual events I intend on enduring on their behalf. 
deserve this gorgeous garmin, as this sad nhs nurse has just come back from a funeral of one of patients, yet another one of my favourite patients I've looked after for years, lost to Covid 😢 and this new garmin would really cheer me up. It would really help my running, cycling, swimming training especially for events, chasing Pbs and keep me sane
I deserve a FR955 because due to the whole pandemic situation i started running and completed my first half marathon in April. Time to step up my game with the FR955.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I completed my first ever trail marathon last weekend at the Maverick Exmoor trail run and was out for many hours in the sun, so the solar capabilities would be amazing for me and the more adventures I have planned 🌞⌚️🤞
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because although I am not a professional runner, I am a mother of two kids and a Mathematics teacher, who performs various tests on her children and students so that they can analyze the graphs of their races during my classes. I take advantage of these moments to make you aware of the importance of solar panels and solar recharging in a watch of this caliber seems extraordinary to me. I must also say that at almost 50 years old, I run between 8 and 10 km every day, in addition to doing calisthenics, and I would love to know what my physiological age is, which I estimate to be much lower than my physical age. On the other hand, I have to say that I love that Garmin put a touch screen on this watch. Thank you very much for the videos that explain the operation of this extraordinary device.
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because I love running, I've been running and training with a club for half my life since I was 14 and am 28 now! I've had my first baby in November so I'm now running with a buggy and slowly getting my running fitness back. I have the Great North Run and Yorkshire marathon to train for this year and winning this prize would be amazing and help with my training! 🤩🏃‍♀️
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I am training for my first ever triathlon and a shiny new watch would go very nicely with the wetsuit I picked out mostly because it looked cool. 3 years ago I couldn't even run a mile and the most I would have recorded was the walk to the shop for crisps... having lost about 5 stone in weight and completely changed my lifestyle, I now run and cycle regularly. That said, I am very slow and so the battery life will be well tested :)
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I like to keep on track of my health & fitness journey.  I'm getting back in shape, lost some weight, and now I enjoy running, hiking, cycling, kayaking, walking, maybe a wee bit of running - I'm getting back in the swing of it.   Thanks for the opportunity to participate ; )
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I could replace my FR245 and get longer battery life and all the great cool new features that were so eloquently described in this excellent review.  Wiggle is my favourite place to shop for running-related items and I would like to be an ambassador for them by winning this watch and telling all my friends and family about my fantastic experience with Wiggle 😊❤
I deserve a FR955 because although all the features look amazing and will help improve my running, having something that will help me find my phone will save me hours of hunting around my home is a "game changer"
I deserved FR 955 because after 2 years of not running, this watch will serve me and kick my butt up for starting back to running and putting away my stomach!
I deserve the FR955 as I got into Running and cycling following lockdown through humanitarian fundraisers, since then I have reman part in over 20 events raising thousands and intend to continue for the foreseeable future. The watch will aid me with my training to keep me consistent and help me improve further. Currently nursing a broken collarbone following a cycling event the watch will really cheer me up!
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I’m running the London Marathon this October fundraising for the Samaritans and this watch would be amazing for training and race day! 
I deserve a new forerunner 955 because I got a puncture on my back tyre on my commute this morning that was a nightmare to change. Once done I set off and a dropped chain caused me to slip and the pedal gouged my right shin. So after this I think I'll need a forerunner so I can track my runs to work instead!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I've clocked 8 consecutive ParkRun PBs using a woefully synical fitness tracker and I'd love to see what I can do with an accurate GPS signal- my Strava following will be so proud 😂
The Garmin Forerunner 955 can use the external Polar sensors? And if they do, they work towards the Watt measuring?
I deserve a FR955 because I used to be a nail bitter as well, I see you (🙂). I've opted to spend that time running and training others as part of my recovery journey - 🙂🙂🙂🙂
I deserve the new Garmin  fr955 because I'm a larger lad, trying to get into trail running and my sense of direction is terrible! I love cycling, swimming and  hiking and this would definitely help!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am training for a 52km trail race this September and I haven't even run a marathon before! Will definitely need the extra battery life!
I'm also currently shoeless as I keep buying shoes online which don't fit! Legs want to run 21 milers, feet say 10 is enough...
I deserve this watch because I’m training for some ultra marathons, lost 100lbs in 3 years and I haven’t taken a day off running in over 2 years. No days off, no excuses just hard work and discipline every day!
I deserve the new Garmin ForeRunner 955 because I have been into sports all my life and have never had the opportunity to track my activities to better my performance. I recently ran my first half marathon and my phone died mid way which made me lose strava mapping. I have even gifted smartwatches to my friends, but has never had one of my own. I have heard a lot about garmin and would love to have one for all my sports activities, hikes, sleep cycle and heartrate. Thank you!
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I’m still rocking a FR620 and pardon the pun… but that thing has had a long run! This new FR955 will help me continue chasing fitness for the next decade while actually tracking my overall health.
I deserve a FR955 because I need a more versatile and accurate GPS watch as I begin my progression from a runner to a triathlete. I have been using the Forerunner 45 for the past few years to track my runs, but now having recently started open water swimming, I've discovered that the GPS tracking is atrociously bad in water! The multi-band GPS in the FR955 looks like a game-changer in this respect. The other two features that would help me a lot are the music storage and the maps feature, which will not only enable me to stop lugging my phone around, but should also help prevent me from taking the wrong path on trail races (an annoyingly frequent occurrence!).
I have a forerunner 935 it is starting to play up , so  would love to upgrade to a 955
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am just recovering from a hip injury and am really looking forward to getting back into running, swimming and cycling as I have been limited in the past 6 months!
I DESERVE THE GARMIN FR955 BECAUSE i am a truck driver and i started taking care of my health now by exercising and running. So i think this watch will really help me keep in track and stay fit.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I will use it to the max when trail-running ⛰️, city-running 🏙️, cycling 🚵‍♂️, hiking 🏞️and maybe swimming 🏊🏽‍♂️. This will bring some sought-after accuracy to my activities. (Gps from phone is usually wobbly and Strava is always too optimistic with the pace and distance 😂)
Hi, I deserve or in fact my colleague deserves, as he is a sport master being a diabetic he is running on flat, running in mountains, working with kids, showing them how to train. He is showing that being a diabetic is not a disaster and motivates other people to change their life. He is a teacher with lot of passion and strong will. Of course he can be seen on his FB or YT channel. Thank you.
I deserve the garmin fr955 because I had an accident with my motorbike that almost cost me my leg. Now, 100 days after that I am visiting a rehabilitation pool which during the process I learned swimming!! So a garmin is the best gift to track my performance in the water and if I will walk without any problems with running  in the future!!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because after now 48 yearts of life I now want to start running. The watch would be a great motivation. Greetings from germany.
I deserve the new Forerunner 955 because I want to treat my lovely husband. Whilst he is still suffering, 18 months in, from Long Covid, he is trying really hard to get back to dome kind of fitness levels he had before. He is trying everything he can and having the new tools this supplies will help him manage his efforts to control all the set backs he keeps facing. The stamina feature & holistic data view will definitely do this! HRV will be really good too as HR is something he has to be very aware of.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955, because I wish to have best running watch and in other occasion can not afford it. Video is good and explanation is clear for all.
I deserve the new Garmin 955 because I’m a new runner at 60 and I need all the help I can get! I love the idea of the solar power too
I deserve the Forerunner 955 as the new training widgets will help me to push my fitness to the next level & I can inspire more people for the sport with it! Thanks
I deserve the new Garmin FR 955 because I’ve been running every day for the past 887 days and plan to keep going so a new Garmin would not only an awesome reward but also encouragement to keep it up. I also love the fact it’s solar charging, lightweight and has so many other extras compared to my current garmin. Please 😊
My current running watch is grossly inaccurate. I can’t even tell what side of the road I’m running on when I look back at my runs. 😫
Really, after 20+ years of smoking I began running a few years ago and I’ve never looked back. I remember my first run being around .2 miles, and now, I’m preparing for my first marathon and have my eyes set on an Ironman. My family has a healthier, more active father because I decided to lace up a pair of sneakers and take off. Thanks for supporting people like me with great product reviews.
I deserve the FR955 because it's been 90 days since I quit smoking after 30 year smoking life and this morning I just succeeded 5km running for the first time.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 for the reason I will now outline. Bare with me here... Whilst out on one of my regular endurance runs last week I came across a pathway that seemed new to me. Eager to explore a new route I was horrified to learn that it was actually a wormhole in disguise. I was sucked into the upside down, much like Stanger Things, only worse. My existing Garmin watch showed a huge spike in my HR and it became clear, I was in trouble. I bravely fought my way through a maze of horror and turmoil. After what seemed like forever, although was actually only 2k according to the Garmin, I found a small light at the end of a tunnel. Despite my training status being unproductive I was able to muster the strength to begin my ascent back to my realm. But then, disaster! So close to escape my wrist was grabbed hold of by a Demogorgon! We fought the battle of my life and I escaped by the slimmest of margins. I was horrified upon my return to see that in the heat of battle, my Garmin had been torn from my wrist. I ran to the safety of home as quickly as I could and despite my best efforts, none of this was uploaded to Garmin Connect! By wining the new FR955 I am certain the new morning report will also save me from this experience again. Worst case, incident detection should send me some help! Thanks for sticking with me!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am running the London Marathon for the first time this October and it will help me with my training progress. I use a Garmin currently but might need something with a longer battery life, although I should finish in less than 49 hours 😂 
i deserve a FR955 because maybe i'm the only runner who follows you from morocco and who participates in this contest :)
otherwise i have been running since 2009
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because it’s my birthday soon and it’s about time I replaced my old Forerunner.  I love the sun and my new watch will now too!  And I’m always low on battery and regularity get lost 🤣- win win! 🙏🍰
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 is because I am tired of forgetting where I am at when I am in a flow state during my run.  Nothing worse than stopping to look at your phone to see which way you need to turn.
I deserve a Forerunner 955 because I don't want to be an after runner. While hindsight is useful, there's nothing like taking part and knowing where you're going! Some say you can see where you've been accurately with this one!
I deserve a FR955 because at 63 I have recently taken up mountain trail running. A limerick for the occasion: There was an old codger named Euan, who's tatty old kit needs renewing, then he saw a review of a Garmin brand new, which soon on his wrist he'll be viewing.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because my old 735XT died as I was running my first marathon, the Edinburgh Marathon. I’m a student that’s strapped for cash but I’m starting my training for my first Ironman next summer. The watch sounds and would be amazing!
I deserve a FR955 because I have been using Garmin watches since the 310XT, and recently passed 50 000km with the 910XT 😁 using it on the bike and on the run.(occasionnaly on the swim)
I deserve the FR955 because it will help me continue my fitness journey. I love to find my running power - make me feel like the Duracell bunny 😊
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because my Vivoactive3 doesn't have the battery life any more to sustain my longer runs over 20 miles.  I wear it all day, everyday and Garmin produce stylish watches that motivate me to ensure that I hit my step and floor goals each day
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because not only will it help me track my performance and progress for my runs but I will commit to spending all my time sharing this around and being an amazing advocate for the 955!! Promise :D
I deserve the new Garmin FR955. Garmin all the way, they have been my life blood for the past four years. As someone who battles with P TSD. Autism and ADHD it keeps me focused and extremely determined, I can track my progress running, weight training and walking with the family aswell as our weekly family competition of who has the most steps per week. The stress monitor is a useful tool giving me indication how I am managing my stress levels. They are packed with many useful tools and keeps me connected so I don't miss the latest gossip. They say women can talk men just text, tweet and Instagram. Please consider me carefully you will be helping me a great deal with an update Garmin no forgetting to charge the watch and realising before a run or gym session it's about to die, praying it will charge enough in the car before your session. Good luck to everyone God bless Steve.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because as I am heading to 50 years old, need assistance to run/train smart to avoid injury and general aches and pains. Of course believer in no pain no gain 😜
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I'm a 45 year old female who has just begun her fitness journey after going through covid , loss of a loved one and many more personal obstacles. 💝
I deserve the forerunner 955 because I have a need to get my old self back into shape for running races. I am a long time Garmin lover and this would really make my old heart swell
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because my old suunto watch keeps thinking I'm half round the country during my runs and ride, as the GPS is resetting. Got some excellent Strava PBs though as I can now run 100kms in seconds. So if you ever here a sonic boom across southern England, it's me breaking the sound barrier on my weekly 10kms from London to Devon!
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I’d love to have a watch to track more accurately my runs, my Fenix 3 sometimes gets lost on my runs out there and I bet it’s on its last legs!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am planning to do Philly Marathon on November, Chicago Marathon 2023, Ironman 70.3 Boulder and multiple half marathons and triathlon. My apple watch just cannot keep up till end of my runs or triathlons.
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because I've worked hard to get in good running shape to the point that I need the long battery life for 100mi+ events. My current, old, tattered, scratched watch just doesn't cut it anymore and needs to be charged on the go during longer events.
Oh I so deserve the new Garmin Fore Runner 955. I could GPS my way off the sofa and do some exercise or I could get up in time to do some exercise and as I live in New Zealand where we have heaps of sunshine I can make the most of the solar glass to do some exercise. I’m also not on the run (literally) so I don’t mind being GPS tracked. I could actually find my way to where I parked the car.
I deserve a FR955 because I've never once moaned when one of your packages has arrived and it didn't contain a pack of Haribo! If you prefer a sensible answer, I'd like to move up from Olympic and Sprint Triathlons to Middle and Long course and this would be the mega tool to help me on the way. Multiband GPS helps with the accuracy! I'd also love to see my running power too!
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because I broke my hip mountain biking, have needed 2* operations and now I'm trying to get back into training and get back into shape and get up to speed again.... The watch would be the business for me monitoring my recovery and especially the tracking accuracy as I do most of my training in dense woods and forests... The event notifications might come in handy too if (and when) I crash again 😳
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am studying to be a medical student and it would be amazing to track my running, cycling, and swimming quickly and easily - it's so cool! There's no harm-in giving me a Garmin 😉
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I’m trying to piani geniali my self above of what I think I can do, with three kids, a full job in the military, I’ll try an ultra running of 80km!!!!
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955,
Because currently I'm a Poor-runner Aged 45,
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I have to schedule my runs around my wife's serious mental health issues, often running 5k, 10k or even half marathons with my youngest in his buggy! Now things are settling I can run "on my own" and it would be nice to do it properly!
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I am always late, and since I mostly need to run to catch up to the time lost, it would be great to use it to systematically improve my run times as well, thus being less late!! :)
I deserve the New Garmin Forerunner 955 because I'm currently preparing for my first Ironman while finishing my masters degree in finance. So all the expenses are already adding up faster than they should and this watch would be a sweet little extra portion of motivation and also make my preparation better by providing mor data for my daily workouts, recovery and sleep.
I deserve a Garmin Forerunner 955 because the menu button on my Garmin Vivoactive that I bought in 2015 just stopped working.  I never replaced my Vivoactive because imo it was perfect... long battery life, fun apps, great visability.  While it would break my heart to see my vivo go, not being able to access apps is a good place to retire it.  If I get it I guarantee I'll still be wearing it 15 years from now as long as it stays in working order.
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because… I’ve done approximately 10 hours (no exaggeration!!) of research on what smart watch to get my boyfriend Alex for his birthday. I started with zero knowledge of smart watches, and now here I am turning my nose up at ones that don’t have things like an Acute Load feature (which is something I didn’t even know existed a week ago 😂). I’m certain the FR955 is perfect for him (he’s big into his running and the features are perfect for his training/lifestyle), but unfortunately is way out of my price range. Winning this would make his year, and mine too! I’d love it if he could have the experience of using a watch like this! Thanks for the video, it was super helpful ☺️ Hope he doesn’t see this 😬🤞
I deserve a FR955 because, as a 49yo I never own Garmin Smartwatch. It's expensive to own one. I usually use STRAVA to record my runs and rides.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because  I am fed up of my current watch not tracking me properly, I run where there is a lot of trees and getting fed up of it showing me all over the place or just disappearing for a while, the accuracy of the Garmin FR955 would be a massive bonus, as I'd know what I'd done each time
Running Power works only with HR?
I deserve the garmin 955 because I'm a crossfit athlete, competing all over Europe since 2015, with workouts that include running, swimming,weightlifting,gymnastics combined and it would be the best upgrade to my 935!!
I deserve the Garmin Forerunner 995 so I can use all the extra features (really like that training readings) instead of actually just doing the training, because that bits way harder!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because due to rising fuel prices and my Wiggle-habit, i'll now be running or cycling everywhere to save cash (for more running & cycling products) so i could do with the improved GPS accuracy to ensure i don't get lost, along with the increased battery life. The new Stamina function will also let me know whether i can make it to my destination on time!
I deserve a FR955 because I was fortunate enough to get selected to run for Gibraltar in the marathon at this summers commonwealth games but unfortunate enough that I'm not sure my current watches battery will last the race.
I deserve the Forerunner FR955 because I’m going to take it on a journey. Hopefully it will arrive in time for the Croyde Ocean triathlon billed as one of the toughest triathlons in the UK. 49 hours of GPS tracking will just be enough to see me round. I’m also planning to take the Watch to Tanzania for the Ultra X next year which will also test out the battery and advanced GPS tracking over 5 days and 250K of running. My wife suggested if I get eaten by big game during the event that the FR955 will be fully charged due to the solar screen allowing identification of my
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I’m running my first marathon in September and I need a watch just as prestigious as a marathon to train and then race with.
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because mine is still stuck in Evri's delivery depot having ordered it from yourselves on Wednesday. It should have been delivered today (Friday) but now isn't likely to be!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because my old 935 is at the end of its life after taking me through my first half and marathon and the runs in between.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 as I have just moved to Switzerland, don’t know anyone, and I really want to take on those mountains first hand and make myself proud by tracking the overall progress on this until I can run and cycle uphill better and stronger!
I deserve the Garmin Forerunner 955 solar because why the hell not :). I was never a long distance runner growing up and have grew to be a little obsessed with pushing myself to get better at running. Currently running at least 3 miles a day and needing a better tracking partner ;) Pick me !!!!
I probably don't deserve the new Garmin FR955 because there are some really great and worthy athletes on here.  HOWEVER my (getting rather ancient and worn) 745xt is on my wrist telling me when I need a break from desk work, and I could really do with some guidance on race readiness (so I run when I need to run, instead of just when the sun is shining) and stamina (I usually peak too early).  Like you (James), I'm used to the garmin ecosystem buttons but the 955 looks like it imporves on the start button loads (well, the up/down button) for starting yet another variety of activity.  I already have a Garmin heart rate band, and I'm already using lots of the intelligence eg balance during running, but the new multi-band GPS sounds fantastic!
I deserve the FR 955 because I lost 35kg stopped smoking and started running and im looking for a good sports watch to help me monitor the process. I have changed my life, I was 155kg and now im 120kg and going strong :) doing sports every day and living healthy.
I deserve the FR 955 because I'm great as getting lost whilst trail running  and could seriously do with the stamina feature that Gabs shows to know when I need to call for help 🤣
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because  I’ve had the previous model for YEARS and it’s very tired and a little stinky. Need that new solar power to keep me going on my long runs
I deserve to win the new forerunner 955 because I have been very good this year, I’ve charged my old watch regularly and waited patiently while it struggles to pick up the satellites. I’ve not complained when the battery dies mid run even in the blazing sun. I’ve headed out each morning even when my body aches for rest with out the 955 I just don’t think I can perform my best.
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I’m running Hadrian’s Wall for The Royal Marsden Cancer Charity on 8th July and I’m worried my current FR245 battery wont last the 19hrs I’m hoping to do it in!
I deserve ( would very much love) the new Garmin forerunner 955 because being a nurse in the NHS means I’ll never be able to afford it🤷‍♂️p.s. nothing wrong with a dirty screen it means you used it👍
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I would like to tell the time and not get lost 😂 plus, I do SwimRuns and this is the first watch I've seen that has that sport input!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I need to confirm my apparent world record pace of 12:30 for the 5km. My time/distance is currently measured whilst running with a measuring wheel and portable sun dial. Current set up has an estimated accuracy of +/- 10 mins….
I deserve the Forerunner 955 because I've spent the past 3 years tapering/carb loading and need to use the amazing technology to turn me into a swoon worthy running Adonis capable of majestic athletics feats.
I don’t know who actually deserves one of these, but I will share my story. Working at a Covid site has really taken its toll. Staying healthy while trying to increase my running lifestyle, has helped both physically and mentally. I do not feel that I deserve a watch any more than anyone else who is posting on here. I apologize, as I know you had requested humor, but where I am at, we do not have much humor, just trying to survive every day. Thank you for listening, and please stay safe, and healthy.
I deserve a FR955 because my dads currently in hospital and I want to raise awareness of his condition (pulmonary fibrosis) by running as many events as I can. The watch would be a massive help achieving my goals.
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I nearly died in a cycle accident last year and since then got nerve damage and cannot cycle outside anymore because wearing a helemet causes too much pain... Just going indoors now and started running and hiking and so on
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because, I've never owned a device like this before, and it will really help me achieve new goals and meet new fitness challenges.  Also, where can I get a Wiggle mug like the one in the video?☺️
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I fail all my runs w/o a watch, whenever I run on my own I usually abort it (vs. planned run) with some obscure, whimpy reason.  When my old watch worked it kept me going as it reminded me of "....I ain't done yet".   xD
I deserve it because I would be using it 8-12h a week for different sports like badminton, running, strength, HIIT, Biking and Climbing.
I deserve it because I want to compare it to Polar and want to convince myself that your statement of it being the best running watch is right.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I’m still running on the 935, and it’s really starting to show its age - much like me!
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I plan to more trail running and I need that crazy battery life :)
I deserve the new garmin forerunner 955 solar because my vivoactive 3 has started to die and won't stay charged for more than a short jog.  However my garmin edge 530 is working fine, so cycling it is.  This is great apart from I want to have a go at triathlon and can't do that swimming and running with a bike computer.  Plus the FR955 is solar which means here in Sunny Somerset it will never ever need charging.  (I may have made that last bit up)
Yep, that's me, starting a new journey, big changes, would tilt to wear the 955 as my first run watch.
So, on my long run yesterday, my creative juices flowing, 
I know it will help me when I run and bike, and even when I'm rowing!
I can share my run route with him with my precise location,
With the new Forerunner on my wrist I'll be catching Kipchoge!
Well actually I don't, however I would really like it as I could then give my current Garmin watch to a runner who is starting to get a bit more passionate about the sport and would like to record more accurate data than say a phone app could ever manage.  I have also been caught out on runs in the past where the battery has expired after a few hours so the solar option on the new *Garmin Forerunner 955*  would certainly help, especially as I have an ulltra planned for August (Tour of Skiddaw - in the Lake District)
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because... I still do not own a sportswatch and this one looks like a killer! WOW! 🚴🏻‍♂️
I deserve the new Forerunner 955 because you have a fine head of hair, Gabs has luscious locks yet I'm balding! It would also be an interesting experiment to see if the extra reflection from my forehead would improve the solar charge.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I love analysing my running data. It is very convenient when my wife asks me to take the bins out, as I can tell her that I still need 19 hours of recovery.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I have been injured for 3 years and I need something to get excited about running again.HRV means a lot to me about my training
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because it will prevent me from getting lost (which happens wayyyyy too often) when leading runs with RunWildMCR, a free running club for everyone located in central Manchester. We are all about vibes, supportiveness, mental health, and providing a safe environment to run in the city of Manchester where too often people are afraid to run at night. Also my watch battery is abysmal 😭
I deserve the Garmin Forerunner 955 because….
I think I deserve to win this Garmin Forerunner 955 as I am running London Marathon this year, which is my first marathon and I may need the 49hrs battery life as it may take me that long! Don’t want to risk my current watch running out and if it isn’t on Strava, it didn’t happen 🤷‍♀️😂
I deserve a forerunner 955 because my wife won't let me buy one, and I'm a good subscriber :)
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I love running! ❤️
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because I would gift it to my lovely running boyfriend and make him very happy. He's been a fan of Garmin watches for a while and this one would help him train for his next Belfast Marathon 😀
I deserve a FR955 because I tore my bicep tendon and want to get back into running while recovering Having a companion that keeps me in the lower heart rate zone and shows me the way would be amazing!
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I love to improve my PR in 5K, 10K, 1/2 Marathon and Full Marathon. It is the best running watch ever.
I deserve the Forerunner 955 because I’d like to get a more updated watch compared to my Forerunner 935, I train for Triathlon/Duathlon everyday and wish to get more updated metrics to help me with my training. I’ve also had problems with gps with my 935, because I have multiple friends with 935, and all our paces are different it confuses me
I deserve the new Garmin forerunner 955 because I want a good watch to be able to improve my training and recovery. Plus, garmin watches have good battery so I am able to do ultra distance events and not worry about battery life.
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I started running last year and I hold my phone to track my activity on Strava and get bullied by my running club members for still not having a watch 😭🤣 They have photos of me in races looking at my phone when I'm checking my pace, but they think I'm playing Solitaire 😬 
I will be running my first ever marathon in London on October, with a charity place raising thousands, and my training starts next week. Ideally I need a watch now and what better way to get started than with the top of the range running watch from Garmin 🙂
I deserve the new garmin FR955 because I am a fitness freak. I do running, swimming and strength workout. Running is my favourite activity.
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I have a rare case of epilepsy and the doctors suggest that running will help eliminate the frequency of seizures.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because it’s pretty sweet, I like the new HRV feature, music storage so I can stop taking my phone out on my runs .. it’s the perfect runners watch as mentioned on your video .. 
I deserve the new Garmin FR955... because I'm worth it! And I really need a replacement for my forerunner 735xt which has served me well but needs a long rest 😪 😅.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I liked your video and Viggle is the best online fitness store 😀
I deserve the Garmin Frontrunner 955 because as a Race Walker I need to get my Wiggle on, especially after my current watch has just broken.
I deserve the FR955 because I can give it to my other half for 3 reasons, her current FR645 cuts out after 50miles of the London Ride 100 (even though it was at 61%), so I had 50miles of whining, which I couldn’t get away from. It continually loses connection, so I have to keep re-connecting it for her. And following watching the video, I can program the route into it that’ll stop her asking which way on the runs we do. God I hope she doesn’t read this.
I deserve a FR955 because… well actually I don’t, but my girlfriend does. She’s a great swimmer, hates running and is a new, nervous cyclist. This hasn’t stopped her doing the London Marathon, RideLondon and getting her London Classics medal (before me). She’s incredibly determined and has her sights set on swimming Windermere next year. She needs a watch upgrade to track her open water swimming and that Live Event Sharing will let us family and friends share in it even when she’s far out of sight.
I deserve the new garmin FR955 because I have had 3 operations done in the past two years and has only been able to start running and training again this June for the first time in 2 years 🏨
I wouldn’t say that I deserve it as such but I would like it as I would use it most days in the pool on a run and on a bike. I’m still old school with my tech so an update would be nice.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because it’s about TIME I won something and I’m RUNNING out of luck. I will also be good and reCYCLE my old watch. That will do SWIMMINGly thanks x
I deserve the new Garmin FR955, because life is too short sitting out the next run while waiting for your watch to be recharged.
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because, I do a lot of multisport activities and It's an awesome watch well out of my budget!
I deserve a Garmin forerunner 955 because I have never been able to afford one and as a cyclist on road and mountains it would make my year.
I deserve a FR955 because I am huge fans of Garmin and Wiggles. I love running with Garmin and Stryd. I have running over 10 years and 23,000KM. I really desrie to break my PBs.
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I’m running a 180km ultra and my current Garmin only lasts for 8 hours and if I don’t record the whole race, we all know it didn’t happen!
I deserve the Garmin Forerunner 955, because I need the extra battery life for my live sharing link! 😂 Especially for some of my big bike plans ahead! I’ve also destroyed my old Garmin watch from multiple MTB falls, I don’t think it’s very happy anymore😂
Hallo ! Great video. I'm Nicola, a chill teacher in an international school in the center of Paris, where teacher salary IS QUESTIONABLE! However, I live and breathe running, rowing, and cycling. And skiing, when it's cold enough/altitude is good. I'm looking to participate in an Ironman 70.3 or full ironman in Belgrade in the summer, this watch would be unimaginable for that! Thanks for your consideration!
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because the LCD on my FR245M is damage and its too expensive to replace one.
I deserve a FR955 because I run, I hike, I sleep and I bike (that was a small poem) and I have zero overview or some kind of plan for it. Yet :)
I deserve the  Garmin FR955 as I unfortunately broke the screen on my ForeRunner 735xt whilst rock climbing!
I deserve a new watch because I’ve never HAD a running GPS watch, but placed 2nd in my first ever 10k race ☺️ I’m fairly late but oh well, it’d be cool to win this!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because the 7 hour battery life of my FR45 can't manage run/hikes, ultras (that I want to run), or keep me on route. Plus, who can afford it?
I deserve the new Garmin fr955 because I was made redundant from my pharmacy job during COVID (a blessing in disguise 😂), had an operation 😳 and gained 2 stones😞.  Since then I started two jobs, one in the NHS👍 and other in a school 🤗 cos I'm crazy, like the challenge and giving back. I've had a Son ( not literally as I'm a man) and got my twin girls into running 🙃 when they are not watching TV 😁😄. Gabs you're my hero. I want to do an Ironman, what is it like? I would use every feature on this watch.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I can link it to my Garmin edge 530 and get more data from my rides and use it to track my runs
I deserve a FR955 because I was once told I could never run a marathon. So I went and ran one.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I need to a good reason to run 😁, maybe I can get a new motivation seeing my improvements 🏃‍♂️
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I recently returned to running! So I will use them!!!
I deserve a FR955 because my hand me down Foreunner 920XT battery doesn't last as long as it used too therefore it runs out of power before I've finished my run or ride as I forgot to charge it.
I deserve the new forerunner 955 solar because i will do my first Ironman in Hamburg next year. The watch would be the perfect friend for all my trainings in the neat future. I would love to have a nice partner on my arm :)
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because when i ran 60k for my 60th birthday i was perilously close to running out of battery on my present Garmin.
I deserve the new Garmin FR956 because I forget to charge my watch far to often and spend as much time charging my watch as I do running.
I deserve a FR955 because i don't need it. I run because i love to do it, since 10years no machine for helping me to improve myself. today i want to score and do the next step ! ... finally i need it...  sorry for my english i'am better in running. 
Love to win the Garmin 4Runner watch for my lovely wife bustin a gut doing park run as her Fitbit is rubbish 🙏
I deserve a forerunner 955 because I have 6 month old twins and it’s would be a great motivational boost and a great reason to get back out training 😂
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because this will get me ready to go back on the roads and trails rather than on the treadmill. The incident detection I can use because I got hit in the back of the head with a bat and had to walk 2 miles home to tell the wife and call the police. I am also get lost on when on runs, the mapping can really help me.
I deserve the new forerunner because I ran a 50km mountain trail at the weekend and I had to record it in 3 parts because my watch died, recharged it at a CP, died again and just recorded on my phone! 🤦🏻‍♀️🤞🏻
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because, im a high school runner with a mid phone, i dont have a watch and i cant afford a lot of garmin gear, i would like the watch to be able to use it as a semi phone and i would love it for running activities and the gym
I deserve a Garmin forerunner 955 as I've waited before my 50th last year when there were rumours for it to be finally released..
I deserve the new forerunner 955 because the super powers it will give me will hopefully cure my old man hip so I can get properly out on the trails again!!!
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because I could never afford such a watch and instead of using just my phone and a cheapo chest strap I think I could really step up my running with this watch.
I deserve the Garmin Forerunnet FR955 because I want to keep Garmin in my life while training, show it off and tell the story.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 solar because i usually run at nighttime and i like having expensive pieces of equipment attached to my body while running from some fellow people who probably want to "try it" and see its "features". Also i have some difficult to hear stuff especially in the last chapters of the video
I don't really "deserve" a FR955 because frankly, I'm not a triathlete, or even a particularly good runner. I don't really use any of the fancy built in metrics like HRV, training load, running power, music, or any of that. But I still "want" it though, but that's pretty much only for my vanity's sake - the "how big is it" part of your review was the only part that really caught my interest. I'd like a bigger watch than my current FR245, because it just looks more bad ass and makes me feel more bad ass, lol. That's pretty much my main motivation. As a previously over weight middle age guy I started running about two years ago and just did my first marathon, solo, in 3:39, and now I've got all kinds of hubris, wanting to run a sub20 5k, do trail ultras, and yada yada, and getting this watch is another aspect of that same hubris I believe. I mean, I'm pretty sure that just looking at the damn thing on my wrist would inspire me to try to be as good as the actual good runners who actually "deserve" to wear these. To me, that joy of inspiration is what's fun about this kind of tech, a lot more than the actual "tech" :P
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I decided to book in for my first 70.3 in July having never anything like it before. #nutter. Tried to do it last year but broke my elbow following a drunk fall, so now training again and absolutely pooping myself about it. Have the most basic Garmin at the moment which is years old but hoping it will get me round. I need this watch in my life!!!
I need the new Garmin FR955 because navigating this adulting thing tends to run my battery low...hopefully the solar on this can help me find a sense of direction :P
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because it's my birthday and I need to record just how much I'm not doing in order to get back to my pre-COVID fitness level
I deserve the garmin FR955 because i'm a tall and very thin runner and always wanted to know if a 46mm watch could fit on my wrist. Btw 9x5x5 = 225, the FR225 was my first running whatch, so if this isn't a sign... ;)
I deserve a garmin forerunner because i am skint , and still rocking the 910xt
I deserve Garmin FR955 because I know that I can achieve higher results with this brand new watch. I love running and want to achieve better results in it. This watch will give me extra motivation to put more efforts in my trainings. I have my brother to whom I need to be role model. He is starting his career in tennis and I take him to running with me. With this watch we can achieve higher results
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I'm a new runner and therefore need something swanky and bling to wear at park runs- making me look like a pro to distract the others eyes from my bad running form and turtle speeds 🥴
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because ..... I like the smell of freshly open instructions but I don't really like reading them. And seriously, I try to go back to running after a very long break and Forerunner 60 who accompanied me he gave up to the test of time he wos good companion, and I would be very useful to me a new watch, I would find out how all these goodies works The most stress assessment may explain my hair loss and to make it look cool on my maej hand like a compass
1. Motivate and help me get back running and fitness after recovering from covid-19 virus
2. Track my running accurately with the multi-band GPS, so no need to carry my mobile phone anymore
i deserve the new fr955 because I am starting running and need to track my progress
I deserve a FR955 as we've just had our second child and those 6am & 10pm runs are taking all the discipline in the world to fit in but i'm doing it.
I deserve the garmin fr955 because I’m so tired of getting lost on the mountain every time I try to go for an adventurous run. Weeeell and also because this year I’ve been training triathlon, and in a week I have my first triathlon… so I could use that help hahahahajah
I deserve the new garmin 955 for me to give to my wife.  She is recovering from a bunion surgery that was causing extreme pain when running.   This would help her track her recover,  and get her back into her passion of running.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because my current watch runs out of battery life while im still running and out hiking in the beautiful mountains of Wellington New Zealand. Plus I love you Garmin Im your biggest fan!!! If I had Millions of dollars Ill split it between kids hospital and Garmin
I deserve the new Garmin fr955 because I always have the wrong training program due to I don't have any techy device like this. I cant see my recovery, stress, and sleep quality I'm always ended up in fatigue/overtraining. I can't afford it.
I deserve the Garmin Forerunner 955 because I helped your amazing video and channel with my liking, commenting, subscribing and turning on the bell notification 👍🔔♥️.........and cuz I love running:)
I deserve Garmin FR955 as I have decided to run each and everyday 🏃‍♂️⚡️
I deserve the garmin fr955 because I decided to train and run my first marathon next year
My wife deserves the new Garmin  FR955 for running her first half marathon at the age of 59
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because it’s about time i win some sort of competition and couldn’t think of a better watch to replace my trusty Garmin Forerunner 35 - I know the Forerunner 35 is a better watch than the giveaway but really want to win a competition 👍🏻
I deserve the new Garmin 955 because I’m so slow my Apple Watch battery keeps running out before I finish an event and I reckon I could probably finish a 5k in 49 hours 🙂
Well I obviously need a forerunner 955 because I already have a Darth Vader and a venu 2 plus and I'm starting a collection I suppose and need this to really diddle me and my collection. I want solar so I don't need to charge it.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because      I am from South-Africa😂😂, I need serious motivation. I had the same 🍏 watch for the past 4 years i wanted to upgrade to the Garmin ever since. I started running about 2 years ago after being a swimmer for more than 20years. Recently I started cycling also on the side. I need a new sports watch!!!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because when I run I often look  forlornly at my empty unstylish wrist, which doesn’t show any HR details, phone notifications or running pace/time. My wrist does seem to solar charge though, it’s full when it’s red and peeling, ouch! Please help my poor wrist out with an ace new watch, pretty please 🙏 🥺
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am tired of all these fenix fanboys telling me that the 9xx series is second rate to them (I do love the fenix too….) and because I am going to run my 5th marathon in Memphis at the St. Jude 26.2 and would love to have a piece of kit to keep me in the know about all my training and how my body is recovering!! Also if you’ve got a channel shirt ill represent in it during the marathon as well!! Thanks!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because, being a slow running, I've been making all the faster runners look good for years (you're all welcome 😉)
I deserve the new Garmin ForeRunner 955 because I never want a repeat of the missed KOM of a park run in 2012 due to the battery running out. Probably would of made the Farnham gazette if that segment had registered. Hey ho. Paul
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I would like to increase my fitness to the next level.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because when I went out running early morning (still dark) with a watch without a map/navigation function I ended up getting lost and running down a narrow trail in the pitch dark and I couldn't find my way.  I bumped into a pig style (literally) and disturb a mum pig with her piglets, scare the !?$* out of both her and me as she came running out to investigate.  I jumped the nearest fenced into some stingers only to find the path and style I should have been on, if only I'd had the new Garmin FR955 to guide me.
I. Hate. Running. But I have also promise myself that I can/will/"need" to run 10k under an hour. This because I need a better health and to get more energy to play with childrens. 
(In the process to find a running watch for me, stand between 955 and 255)
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because my FR245 battery is way to small for the Ultras I run and I have to charge during the run :(
i deserve the new garmin forerunner 955 because i need need replacement for my old suunto watch for runninh/multi sports
I deserve a new Garmin FR955 so that I can use the tracking feature. Not so that my husband can feel safe knowing where I am when I'm out on the trails. Mostly so that he can safely get himself coffee☕ and cake🎂 and not have to panic about missing me pass him when running races🏃🏻‍♀️. He claims that spectating (especially for marathons or ironman events) is a harder day than the actual competing 🤷🏻‍♀️ this might reduce him moaning about it 😂
I deserve a FR955 because i do plenty of run/drawing and some of them over  hours duration. best
I deserve a new Forerunner 955 because my best running buddy needs a new watch
I deserve a FR955 because I like running.😀
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am from another planet and we don't have running watches there. FR955 will make me god of the running on my planet
I deserve FR955 because my wife is getting into running and wants my current FR245.
I deserve to win the FR955 because I am just one watch away on my arm from being legally locked up as an insane garmin geek when I go for runs, now standing at 3 watches per run. Wiggle me!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I use an old Tomtom running watch for the last 8 years and it is slowly dying ^^
I deserve a FR955 because I am trying to become the fitness and fastest I can.
I deserve the Forerunner 955
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because who doesn’t love opening a shiny new box and reading all the wee books it comes with. Would also be great recording all my runs as I aim for 1000 days nonstop running. #solarrunningjunkie
I deserve the garment FR955 because my phone is keeping me back while recording my runs🤭
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I desperately need the brilliant multiband gps. The last time I went out on a trail, I got so lost that I came back looking like the Tom Hanks character from Cast Away and have taken to running with a packet of ginger nuts in my pocket so I can leave a trail in order in find a way home. A new FR955 will help me to run without an annoying rustling noise and from being followed by slightly covetous small mammals. Please help.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because my border terrier tw#t puppy chewed up my Garmin forerunner 45.
I DESERVE THE GARMIN FR955 BECAUSE…. having one would give me extra justification for getting out on the bike/on a run when I need that extra excuse! Plus. Think of all the data it would give me!
I deserve the new Garmin Freerunner 955 because like me, me current one is old and clapped out and needs an update. I record my bike rides on my Garmin Edge Explore but walks: forget it. Anyone would think I spent the days in between rides doing nothing!
I deserve a FR99 to improve my 5k time as the wife said I spend too much time running.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 so I can gift it to my fiancée Ellie so that she can start running and cycling and I can have a permanent training buddy!
I deserve the garmin Fr955 because im garmin user for 20 plis years and run everyday
I deserve a Garmin FR955 because... it would be awesome to own a casual 'black magic' (vid 1:24) to have a top of the range product to add the secret potion to my running and make me fall in love with racing and hopefully give me the spell to improve my training that won't be broken for a very long time . Plus I promise I will add the #littlemix song to my running playlist 😂😂
While I wouldn't say deserve it, I'd like for you to gift me this forerunner 955 please because I'm training to go to BUDS and become a Navy SEAL. I had hip surgery 2 years ago to the day come June 20th and having to learn to walk/ run properly again was quite the undertaking. My training have been quite tumultuous with having lost 60lbs once healed from surgery to having COVID-19 three times it's been rough saying consistent but I've endured for my dream. At 29 my years old I'll need an age waiver and to wow them with amazing physical screening scores so I'd appreciate ever edge I can get. I've tried The Samsung active 2, the Polar Grit X and the Garmin Venu all without luck so I'm hoping this forerunner 955 will take my training to the next level. I see my recruiter in September so I'd really appreciate the support and gift. Thanks for you time and have a great day Sir!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because then I will win even the fastest runners in the discipline of the best running watch.
I deserve the Garmin Forerunner 955 as I LOVE ALL THINGS GARMIN. With the 955 I can finally divorce my phone (temporarily) and train in uninterrupted bliss.
I do love Run but never have Garmin..
I deserve a forerunner 955 because I am the least dench running dad –with a spectacular dad bod– out there. If anyone needed a solar boost, it's me. Last time I saw the sunshine was in 2019 and that holiday got rained off by a literal hurricane. Scrap the running watch, can you give me a beach holiday and a gym membership instead* 
I deserve to win the new garmin forerunner 955 because looking cool will obviously make me faster!
I deserve a garmin forerunner 955 because I cycled into a pot whole and fell into a bush on a gravel ride, in the process breaking my older forerunner.
I hope i deserve Garmin 955, because i have gray hair and nede to get running😅
Send me Garmz 955 Wigz.. wanna up my running game. Gotta lose dem layers.
I deserve a FR955 because I run a lot :)
I  deserve the new garmin fr955 because if I didn’t record my run and post it on strava I did not happen !
I get the "I deserve the new Garmin..." intention but I'll first say I don't deserve it. I'm wearing a 945 and watching the video on a decent smartphone from an air conditioned room. I'd rather see the watch auctioned with proceeds given to charity. Or perhaps given to a disabled athlete or veteran trying to regain fitness. Just my. 02
I deserve a FR955 because I’m 36, overweight and clinging on to the “I used to be a runner”. 
Ran 1hr 28mins in 2008 at the Great North Run in a “comeback” and
18:46 in a 2012 Parkrun as I was motivated to be healthy for my wedding that year.
Give me the watch and 12-18 months to watch me go from my first run with it to a sub 18min 5km, sub 1:25 half marathon and a sub 3hr marathon 🏃🏻‍♂️
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because my new Forerunner 45 was stolen by my ex, just before she ran away with a professional triathlete.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am a tight old git that won’t upgrade my Forerunner 745.
I deserve the brand new Garmin Forerunner 955, because I’m  financial ruined by our totalitarian government, by their so called COVID restrictions. They entirely deleted all my plans and opportunities for starting my dream in beginning of 2020.  I’m a runner, a biker and a swimmer who really needs a great watch to  accompany me with my outdoor training . Have a nice day and regards, Bertwin
I deserve a garmin forerunner to help keep my training on track for my first ironman. The accuracy, body battery, sleep data, stress score and performance metrics will make sure I'm training and recovering efficiently. The extended battery from the solor power will keep the unit working during ultra endurance training sessions and races. The touch screen and mapping might actually stop me getting lost.
I deserve the new garmin forerunner 955 because I am running the Thames path 100k for charity. My current garmin 245 battery won’t last :)
I deserve forerunner 955, so I can log on weight loss from 244 to 200 in 30 days.
I deserve to win the Forerunner 955 because I managed to break it after tripping over a huge rock!!🥲🪨
I deserve the new forerunner fr955 because if I wear it it will make me understand what 'dench' means, won't it?! 🤣
I deserve a Garmin FR955 because I am a wanna be ultra runner and I lose every online giveaway <3
I deserve a new Garmin Forerunner 955 because I love ALL THINGS GARMIN. With the 955 I can finally divorce (temporarily) my phone and train in uninterrupted bliss.
I deserve the Garmin fr955 because I look like a caveman using my dad's old forerunner 305 and it's time it got it's well earned retirement 🎉
I deserve the new forerunner 955 because my dog ate my Apple Watch!!
I deserve the new forerunner 955 because...i don't have a new forerunner 955
I deserve a FR955 because it's cheaper than a divorce.  That way I can enjoy the fabulous new watch - "it was free; I won it in a competition" - without having to explain to my wife why my current Forerunner 945 is not good enough.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I am a stay at home mom to by disabled daughter, taking care of her. I love running because it I am doing it in her honour who is not able to run, and it helps me to clear my mind. The #GarminFR955 will be a great gift to me as I am not able to afford to buy it and I just love garmin
I deserve the new garmin forerunner 955 because I broke my coller bone cycling and now I'm fat
WOW how can this be the best running watch 2022, so much money for so little. Love Garmin not liking dated tech for premium orice.
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because I can then see how shockingly my dad-bod transformation is going whilst looking like a haggard version of the guy in the video pushing a double running buggy…help a brother out
I think I deserve a Garmin 955 as I've been using my digital casino watch for the last 3 years for all my training! Which basically means I can just time my runs laughing 🤣
I deserve ForeRunner 995 because I do not run
I server the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because the Apple Watch sucks for any sort of real training
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because dot dot dot, I’m awesome and would be awesomer with this new #garmin product.
Spread the awesomeness with the new #garmin #forerunner955
I deserve new Forerunner 955 because Iam Polish Gypsy Jew:-)))
i (don't) deserve the new forerunner 955 because      reasons ..  ;]
I DESERVE THE GARMIN FR955 BECAUSE I WILL SEND IT TO UKRAINIAN RUNNER🇺🇦
Just ordered one up for my wife’s first running watch 👍🏻
I just got my forerunner 55 last Monday and im happy with it. I use it as a smart watch and step tracker.
Unfortunate they left out trail running. Will be looking forward to the Garmin 245 review. Thanks for taking the time to make these videos.
I bought a Forerunner 55 about a week ago to replace my old Polar M400........and I am seriously impressed by it for an entry level watch. I'm no stranger to Garmin products, having owned three of their cycling computers. My experiences with them gave me great confidence that I wouldn't be disappointed with the 55.....and I was right. 
Hi! which watch do you prefer between the garmin forerunner 55 and the garmin Venu Sq to start with?
I’m looking for my first gps running on a budget. Should I get the original instinct over this watch at the same price?
After 3.5 years, my Polar Vantage V battery suddenly drained. It pushed me to decide to either renew a battery or buy a watch. After seeing the price and function of F55, I decided to return to Garmin running society. I was surprised by the functions of F55 but disappointed for Polar V. If the battery of F55 could survive for 4 years and be renewable, that would be great. It the rechargeable battery cannot run more than 4 years, I thought it was not an environment friendly product.
I just got this, my first proper running watch. VERY disappointed in the pace reading. It's all over the place! One moment I'm running at 8:55 pace, the next, 9:50, the next, 11:20 and so on. I'm used to using the Runkeeper app on my phone which has an *average pace* option which is consistent. This phone doesn't seem to have that, it only seems to have *current pace* . Can anybody help with a suggestion about this please? It's really frustrating, thanks. BTW, nice review, liked and subbed .
I'm torn between this and the 245, I'm new to running and I'd use it mainly for running, hiking and going to the gym. Also fitness tracking. Which one would you recommend? The 55 is about £60 cheaper.
My Garmin Instinct has horrible issues with the wrist HR monitor. It’s got updated software, so it’s probably a hardware issue. Otherwise it’s great for a hiker/trail runner like me.
Can we record the data in Garmin Forerunner 55 without carrying a smartphone?
If you're looking for a product link for the Forerunner 245 from my Shorts video comparing it to the Forerunner 45 https://youtube.com/shorts/_wADwMjhfbU you can view the FR245 on Amazon in your region here: https://amzn.to/3U8drk3 (my affiliate link).
Are you thinking of buying a Garmin Forerunner 45 in 2022? What's the best price/deal in your region or what price have you paid recently?
Nice one...amazing how few review(ers) cover the basics for someone getting one out of the box and just using it.They want to show you all the sub-menus and tweeks but forget a runner just wants to know how to use the soddin thing!
Thanks for this pal - I’m after a cheap GPS watch for running that connects to Strava and this has convinced me the 45 is the one.
Got a question . Can you display gpx maps for trail run on this watch?
Long back ago I made an account on strava app on my phone. And it didn't ask me to create password that time and I was using it smoothly. Whenever I go for run I take my phone with me and publish data after done with activity.
 Now I am planning to buy 45 and I am confused if I sync it with my stava account through Garmin connect app it will ask for strava password which I haven't created then, how  will I able to sync all my activity datas to strava. And I don't want to create new strava account coz I will lose 2 years of my running and cycling datas.
Does it automatically track a walk?  As an exercise, say walking a dog?  If you don’t have GPS  turned on I’m assuming it won’t show a map if it uploads to Strava?  Is the forerunner 55 better?  Or what do you recommend for walking?
Hi, when my running activity (recorded with the Garmin Forerunner 45) is uploaded to Strava, it does not show any map of where exactly I ran. Is this just not possible with this Garmin, or is it a setting I have to change?
Does it have sleep tracking feature?
I am thinkin about that one... I am using Tom Tom Runner which i bought 6 years ago and still works very good.... But this Garmin is looking so good... In my city price is. 135usd
Does the watch work for running and calculating mileage without a phone?
Do I need to Run with my phone to save my time on strava? or can i run with ONLY The Garmin Forerunner 45, and save the strava time after the run from my watch to phone strava app? IF so i need to buy The Garmin Forerunner 45. ( I want a watch were i only need the watch when i run and save progress after on strava)
I got the forerunner 945 and it's been great! Lightweight and has most of the best features 👍
Really good video guys. I have a Suunto 5, which I think is a good all-rounder, but am ramping up my running in preparation for a HM in the spring. Just picked up a 245, on an Amazon deal, for £140. It feels a bit plasticky compared to the Suunto, and was considering stepping up to the Fenix 6 (£270) and I’d have to try & move on the Suunto. So…on the back of this video, I think I’ll keep the 245 as a dedicated run watch, and use the Suunto for hikes etc.
I was just thinking last night what’s the best running watch for my needs? Mine is getting long in the tooth and it’s time for a new one as I return to running from an injury. 😀😎😀
Which of the entry level watches can u add running pod for running analysis
I have a Garmin Fr 245 Music, (I don’t use the music now when i’m running). I’m thinking on update for the 955, Fenix 7 or Enduro 2. And now i’m doubt with Epix 2. First problem, money. I have the money but I’m not sure if is really necessary a watch too much expensive. I think finally don’t change my watch and when my fr245M died. I will buy other. Lol
Maybe top budget watch/smart band for runners
Forerunner 255 vs venu 2 plus. Which one would you suggest?
Great overview, thanks. Many of us are getting a bit older and now use readers, so seeing distance is fine but reading/glancing at fine print like the watch face while we're actually running is hard to do. 
I’m looking an upgrading from apple to garmin can you use apps like Nike Run Club on garmin watches as I’m doing a marathon training plan on nrc
5:28 about Vivoactive 4 is misleading  , the watch may work with external sensors but it will receive heart rate only , and not running dynamics
The thing that still stops me getting a Garmin (or anything other than an Apple Watch) is the lack of Audible support. As someone who mostly runs listening to audiobooks this means I’d have to take my phone which is a deal breaker for me 😢
Surprised by your comments about the Fenix 6 Pro.  The GPS really isn’t that poor, I get the sense you’re a little obsessed with this…for most runners it more than performs on the fenix 6.  Also Garmin have a great rep with continued software upgrades on older models.  Finally, you can pick up the fenix 6 pro for as little as £300 now…for half the price of the 7, it’s well worth it.
Did I hear that fella say he now runs 100k A WEEK!!!??? 😱🤯😱🤯....
Good information there. I am running a second phone in my BMW cradle via an inexpensive adaptor and using Calimoto mainly but with the option to use Google maps and all was good and I especially like Calimotos clear speed camera warning.  My Troubles have begun to surface in the the vibration, dust ingress etc has made the USB charge port a bit loose so the phone now intermittently charges and is getting worse so there is another potential pitfall there with phone use. 
I use a Garmin Montana because I do a lot of off-road and I can send messages or SOS over satellite without any signals.  I still think it’s a pain to use so I mostly use my phone and run them both when touring.  Never had a phone die on me, and if I did, I always have AppleCare so I’d just walk into any Apple Store and get II replaced or repaired.
Hi Tim - thanks, helpful review. I've got turn by turn satnav on the bike dash supplied from my mobile on Bluetooth, running the BMW Connected app  (so yes, phone is safe in my pocket). It works well and has got me places I would never have found without it and like the XT there is a slider for choosing the degree of winding routes. Downside though (Beeline / Triumph would be the same) is no displayed map - which is making me consider a dedicated satnav. One thing though - and I hope this can be taken the right way - enjoy your content, including general irreverence but please drop the porn jokes. Not helpful and likely to alienate any lady bikers out there.
It is so funny that all those phone versus satnav reviews always consider using an existing phone to a dedicated satnav. Why not review a dedicated rugged navigation phone? It is cheaper, faster, better resolution, waterproof, glove capable, runs  any nav app you may like. you need to couple only ONE bluetooth device (headset), so no messing with the correct order of coupling, it runs your favorite music app, speedcam warning app, tracking app. Compare an XT to a rugged phone, it wil ALWAYS lose... Simply buy a rugged phone, combine it with a DuoLock instead of an overrated quadlock, and you will still be cheaper AND have better hardware.
It's really quite weird. The Lite C5 runs off of cell signal and everyone turns into a stuttering mess when I ask 'What happens if there's no cell signal around?'
Thanks for a great video. They should have added a microphone and a speaker to make this the ultimate fitness/smart watch and maybe justify the price a little more.
Thanks for the video, it looks good, but I’ll keep my Enduro 2 for fitness and longevity and the AW Ultra for a smart watch.
Seems nice, but I just bought the standard Quatix 7 (no AMOLED) - because - I mount my watch on my kayak (hard to see the info on the watch while flailing around with my arms). Problem with AMOLED is that you can’t turn of the brightness dimming down. No biggie when the watch sits on your arm, but if it’s mounted to a bike or a kayak etc. it’s more or less useless and unreadable during workout since it’s “sleeping”. Was a bit worried that the fancy AMOLED screens would make Garmin trash the older MIP type screen and went for the best MIP watch I could afford. AMOLED looks amazing though, when the screen is on.
I can recommend the D2 M1 I use it only as a smartwatch and the health section/fitness / bicycle works just fine.
The specs are just breathtaking but the reason I bought my fenix 7 saphire solar was the battery life. I need those 25 days of run time because I don't want to charge my watch every week.
Nothing beats the Forerunner 945
I am one of those that pays thousands for a watch. But I have actually never bought a running watch and the price seems too steep for me. With that said, the most expensive one actually does look good from the photo shown.
Wait, does that means the new functionality will support naps? I mean even not in a jet lag, many people may have multiple sleeps in one day.
They just don't want to lose their fat margin on that because they dominated the fitness watch market.
I don’t really understand the need for my watch to advise me on jet lag, or any other “need” such as how much sleep I have to catch up on. I know when I travel how much the jet lag will be from the number of hours I go each way. Same thing with sleep. If I don’t get enough sleep, I know that. If I want to know how much I got, I can look it up in the app. The problem with sleep, it doesn’t help for your watch to tell you that you have to get so much sleep the next day to make it up. Sleep doesn’t work that way, you can think that I have to sleep nine hours tonight to make up for what I lost last night, and then sleep nine hours, but you can’t, so it’s a waste.
Meanwhile all the top Kenyan runners are using a 10 dollar casio
A charging cable with fast charge should not and will not be a premium feature. Once Apple kills Garmin market share because let’s face it, Garmin had been slowing down on innovations lately, then they will move it to all products. The Applewatch Ultra is a far better experience but lacks the fitness functions and once that is fixed, Garmin will be in trouble
it’s just a fitness watch for couple of grand, duh. why make such a big deal out of it
4.5 years with Forerunner 35 and I am still happy with this watch. Good for daily running, cycling and swimming
Great vid, very informative and insightful. Watched your other on the Forerunner 45 and now undecided which to buy? Which one is best for a marathon?
How does it work for posting your run/ride? I was really hoping for the actual "how it works" rather than "how to sign up to hope it works". Dealing with the same on Fitbit integration. A trial upload would be ideal.
Thanks for this video, can forerunner 35  sync workouts you have uploaded in garmin connect web-account ? I mean , when you go for run for example it will show you that you have a structured workout that you need to execute on that day.. Thanks in advance Merge Droid!
Hi, I'm a new to smart watches and I cant afford the higher end models and I am a triathelete and i was wondering if this can be used for saltwater open water swimming, I know that this only has sport modes for running and a few others, but if you can connect it to strava I'm guessing you can use it for swimming, but I'm afraid that the saltwater will damage it, I would love your opinion, love ur content man
How do i stop the timer zeroing after an hours running, my watch goes back to 00.00 after an hour of activity
If you're watching this at the end of April 2021, definitely check the shorts video I made on the Garmin Forerunner 45 that can be purchased at a bargain price right now, even cheaper than the FR35 if you're happy to accept a 'seller refurbished' unit from ebay as I did: https://youtu.be/gQCMxjvR8H8
Hi does the Garmin 35 record both you're run and HeartRate to the Strava App
My Garmin Forerunner 35 not showing call and sms notification, what should I do??? Please help me
If I connect this to a Strava does it show my run on a map?
I like the watch but find that I have a very difficult time getting it to read my heart rate accurately, especially during running
Hey Patrick, thanks for your great review! I've got FR 935, haven't upgraded to 945 as I still love 935 and it's like hard to say goodbye to it :) I noticed and I'm thinking if to go for a brand new Epix 2, but it's hugely expensive, I don't need maps, navigation, I'm runner, need it primarily for running up to marathon and for all day long wearing even for sleep tracking during night. Yes I'm pretty used to have 935 every night during sleep. As you said, so fantastic lightweight sport tester. That's why I don't want to urge to "bulkier" Epix. That leightweight of 935/945 is awesome, tailored for runners :). Now I'm more thinking if new FR955 or 945 plus or something like that might come out soon, I mean e.g. by May/June this year. Then I'd like to wait otherwise dilemma if to go for FR945 or Epix 2, but 945 a bit more likewise :) Best, Peter from Slovakia
I have forerunner 945..im very satisfied 👍👍👍
Good day! What do you recommend to consider for running classes: garmin 255 or 945lte? Interested in battery performance, better gps signal, more metrics for running.
Just got mine. Is there a way to see swim, bike, run total distance of the week on the watch face?
Bought the for runner 945, three years ago, about $800, now battery fully drained in matters of hours, called the service center in Taiwan, they said cannot repair, only replace is possible and the cost is... $140 usd. No others options... So a $800 USD Garmin watch can last only 3 yrs and Garmin is OK with that and is asking you to pay $140 to continue to use that model... Really? Are we talking about responsible and fair business here? Quality product? 
#garminforrunner #garminforrunner945 #GARMIN
Hey thanks just getting used on this watch for my runs. I'm using normal gps and it's tracking the route perfectly. Only issue is that before every run I have to calibrate both altimeter and barometer, because If I click run it gets the gps, but not the altimeter and bar..
Hi, this was useful! I have a question, however, on my old Forerunner a run uploaded to Strava via Garmin Connect would show a route map in both apps. Somehow I don't get that with my Instinct Solar. Is this not a feature or am I simply not using the right setting?
Just new to instinct. All I wanna do is learn how to start tracking an activity for distance, time, and maybe pace.  Some of these videos do not reflect what my watch shows when pressing a particular button. I know it has to be a simple setup to start recording a run for example.
my question while run start and finish which bottom used for checking how many kilometer run ??
The Forerunner 245 has both Galileo and Glonass options
I'm trying to figure out what setting to use on my watch.  My last 3 runs all the same route have been 280, 241, and today 161.  I've been told that using Glonass makes your watch stupid.  There is ZERO chance I've been getting over 50 feet elevation, but yet my watch says 280, 241, and 161 for 3 consecutive days. Why is it so off?
Can anyone explain why any of these GPS features are useful? Unless you running or just want to see how far you've travelled I can't see the point 
This is pretty wrong, the ultratac is not less accurate, it's just updated less often. After a 100K run, Ultratac will STILL say "100K", but the route itself would have been updated less frequently. If there aren't lots and lots of curves, there's virtually no difference.
Way this adventure watches not have emergency call?is ridiculous. The forunner 45 and 245 have this
I wanted to ask you if the VMAX function for running is present in the solar device.
Excited for the Forerunner solar!
Hi, thank for the good review.  I'm passionate road cyclist and have forerunner 735. Every time I go cycling for more then 100mls I start thinking weather I need the cable to recharge the battery.  I noticed your 100 years Le tour poster so I guess you know. Thats all I would consider ulgrade for. The solar is enough to charge it, right?
My 645 music GPS died at some point. Started using a vivoactive 3 I had brand new in box. Battery life feels pretty meh, can't use my running dynamics stuff anymore. The instinct solar seems like it would be great for hiking, backpacking, and probably daily use for me. Would still missing running dynamics and vo2max. Is there a buzzfeed quiz I can take to find the right garmin for me?
Does the instinct have downloadable watch faces like other Garmin sport watches (forerunner 45, 230... Which I own) or just the standard face?
Hi @DC Rainmaker what would be the Best Buy for solar charging if wanted to rely only on solar charging between the instinct solar and the Casio GDB H1000? I heard people saying that the Casio can run only from Solar power? That’s what I want. Thanks for the time
Would you take the instinct solar over the fenix 5 plus if used mostly for hiking, running, and everyday wear?
Trying to decide between the forerunner 245 or instinct solar…I like the durability and long batter of instinct but some other features on the 245 also appealing 
Thanks for the detailed in-depth review. How does this Garmin Instinct Solar integrate with Apple Health and Fitness apps please?
Does Garmin watches work together, for example I want this watch for when I'm at work and out doors but when I have business meetings I want to switch to a more classy garmin while still having my fitness tracking I'm line.
Hi, would you recommend it to me if I want a running, cycling and gym watch if I only need the basic metrics? Very good review 💪
Any chance to see advanced sport metrics in this otherwise amazing watch? Even the entry level Forerunner 45 plus has more sport features. It's a shame.
Btw. i have now Polar Vantage V, ok but no wave, tide and i stuck at some fitnesslevel...
Did the altimeter/elevation get better than on the original version? I read tons of complaints about this issue from the original Instinct owners. Most of them say it is because of the place of the sensor, it is just too close to ur skin. As I the sensor is at the same exact place...So I would be interested if the new version handles the sweaty runs better and gives correct elevation. Thanks!
I would love this watch if it had all the features of the forerunner 945. Common Garmin.  You can dooooo it!!
Forerunner 245 vs instinct solar? What ya'll think? I run and bike mostly and do bikepacking! Thanks!
I got a galaxy watch 3 for Christmas. I really like it. But I mainly use it for working out and hiking. The battery life is completely trash. Even with every feature turned off you barely get 3 days and that's not using it lol. How would this stand up with a watch like that. Does it track heartbeat, steps, sleep cycles,, weather? Can I hook it up to my earbuds? How scratch resistant is the screen? I wear my watch 24/7 and have a rough construction job, I had to get all kinds of protective gear for my galaxy watch. I'm wondering if it would be worth it to just break down and cough up the extra for the Garmin Tactix Delta? I realize sone of my questions are answered in the video, I'm just typing my thoughts lol.
Hoi, my vivosmart hr is kapot, the strap gave out and I just got back into sports (running) again. Had some midlife issues and some time I rather forget and gained weight. Lock-downs didnt help either. Started a get of the coach program in November and I am gutted I can't use my wriststrap now. (not a newyears resolution) Plan is that after pools open again here in the NL  I will start weekly swimming with my diveteam again. This involves touching the bottom at 3atm. In due time I hope to loose some of my 100 kilo's as well. Above all I want to get fit again. So I am looking at a new tool. I didnt like my strap for not looking like a watch(it did it's job though) and I don't like some smartwatches for looking like a gimmick and daily charging. But things changed since I last looked at them years again.
Which one would you recommend, the forerunner 245 (745in sale) or this instinct solar. Feature wise (music) I lean towards forerunner. However, I do like gshocks with solar so with it's tougher milspec and 10atm rating I would guess touching the bottom of the pool & daily life is better with the instinct. How is it's sleeptracking?  How do they compare walking and running?
I am thinking about buying an instinct solar or forerunner 245 music.  
I just started running 5k and 10k about 2 month ago and doing around 57 minutes for 10k. 
I found that the GPS watch can hep me improve my running. 
Will you recommend this only for running ? It is certainly not the cheapest options but I like the idea of long battery with the help of solar tech.
Does this model come with running dynamic ?
Best three channel talking about smartwatch in youtube is ( DC rainmaker , DesFit and oldbasgold) the bad thing about garmin sleeping tracking why they still old school ?
Does this have running dynamics?
This watch is now competing with the G-Shocks Survival watches (Old and new Rangeman). Beeing able to run of solar alone is a huge bonus in the survival category! Beeing a good GPS and Sports tracker us a good bonus compared to the G-Shock's! Oh, and the price is much lower (At the cost of sapphire and build-quality of the new Rangeman)
Your mention of the Instinct as a "Fenix lite" makes me want to hear more from your perspective: ignoring music, maps and Garmin Pay for a second, what are the main differences that matter for someone aspiring to become more fit? What kind of training analysis or motivational features are missing on the Instinct that you get in the full-blown Fenix? And does that matter more or less depending on what kind of sports you do (e.g. running, hiking, cycling, etc)? That would be a really interesting video. Keep it up!
They should take a Forerunner 945 with its smart and thin plastic bezel, and make the huge black design ring under the glass as a solar screen. THAT would be an much more effective solar area. Complete it with a same energy saving display technology from the Instinct and there you go!
I have the Instinct Solar... the battery life is the huge selling point for me. Used the Fenix 6 sapphire and 6x solar... if you don't need maps, music etc. Get the instinct solar if you value battery life... the best out there with all the feature offered. The 6x Solar Fenix battery life with solar was little bit of a let down for me. It's the ultimate fitness tracker (battery life on the Instinct Solar) and for someone setting training goals. The Fenix 6 does give a lot more info on the home screen... definitely worth considering as well.
The old one isn't big on the wrist which is nice if you want to wear it a lot to take advantage of fitness tracking. I feel guilty when changing to mechanical watch for a while. These don't have the feel of a 'real' watch but the useability is great.
✅4. Garmin Forerunner 745, GPS Running Watch, Detailed Training Stats and On-Device Workouts, Essential Smartwatch Functions
I'm in love with the Garmin instinct Solar Tactical. It looks absolutely gorgeous and has all the fitness/ outdoor features that I need.
WhyV02 max only work on when you’re running and not other activities
My garmin forunner 245 got water damage just from being in the shower
great review and definitely pushed me to  buy . Even though  the solar does nothing for me but seems to have a few extra small extra features but in my opinion  it looks better. I have gotten bored with black fitness trackers how would you rate this shale grey colour? also do u think  it would mix well with other colour bands ?
Thinking about upgrading my Forerunner 235 (about 5 years old at this point 😳) to this one! I might have to relearn all the fancy new updates since my current one doesn’t have half these features!!
Thanks for the great review! do you find the 6s to be as comfortable during activity/sleep as the forerunner 945/745? I'm debating between the 6s sapphire and the forerunners.
Does it trake your sleep
Also, nice gains bro!  You have bulked up since running 100 miles. Keep inspiring us!
Thats what I'm talking about right there! Great review Vince. A solid watch especially for the price. The newer watches have way too many metrics that many people don't understand or even need. I know many runners that are happy with that watch.
Thanks for the detailed review! I was little bit confused between Forerunner 235 & Vivoactive 3. Nw am clear , will go with Forerunner 235.
Nice review! I am new to the running watch hunt. This video helped me make a decision!
Great review on this watch! Accurate GPS is key! I don't do a lot of running but I really want to pick up a fitness watch for the gym. The gyms in New York are finally opening tomorrow. Great video and review bro!
Thanks for your great review, I just bought it two days ago and I have gone on a run yesterday and on a bike ride today and it works very well. I had an older forerunner 410 for doing both sports and a separate smart watch and wanted to get something better without spending much. I would have loved to hear how much you paid for it. I paid $65 USD for it, and I am finding it an excellent value for money, it is my only watch now. I downloaded a custom screen and it is just perfect for me.  I have the chest strap already, so I normally use it for both sports. I am glad to hear that the heart rate sensors with the watch are not very accurate. The sleep tracker seems to work well too. I have the smart notifications on, and it works quite well, what I don't find is an easy way of deleting them all at once without having to go clearing one by one.  If someone knows, please let me know.
the watch is top for the price. durable also, I wear mine daily now for two years, use it running, cycling, walking, working still works perfect.
I got that watch to it’s realy amazing for running
Still rockin my 230, it’s survived countless Spartan, OCR and trail runs. Mud, rain, lakes. Good watch.
Good review Vince, looks like a awesome watch, my last watch was a Garmin vivoactive3 found it really good to use, the heart rate seem to work better, when done up pretty tight ya wrist, after 2 years the battery didn’t hold a charge, really liked the Garmin, it even had pay wave was handy, could pay for stuff from the watch, I did a bit of research found that the Coros Apex 46mm has amazing battery life, like a month before ya have to charge it, they are designed for 100miler ultras & still have plenty of battery, so it should be ok for my little 30k runs, so far is very good value 😁👍
I think the 235 is the perfect everyday runners watch. Not needed for someone starting; but someone who wants to make running part of their lifestyle. It’s such a great bang for buck. Only reason I updated was I had such a great deal and for “future thinking”. Pretty sure you can change the other screens too. The workouts have been key for my Mara training plan!! Great review man! I’ll be getting back to you on the HR. Soon. Going to give it a couple weeks to get some “good baseline data” I mention this in my next video coming; so hope to have it in my week 13 video. #youtheman
I'm about to get this watch second hand too like you. Hope it's good. Have you ever had issues with it not syncing your runs to garmin connect? I'm assuming not since you didn't say it in the video
Vince not big on running but that watch sound pretty good I have like the first year fitbit for men and I do noticew when I use the gps and just it reading the steps I take and all it seems to be off and by a lot at times so I might consider getting this garmin. Thanks for you insight and review on it. 👍💯
This is a must tool for anybody who is into running like you. It pretty much does everything. Do you wear it all the time or only when you're about to workout? I'm definitely looking to an everyday watch with features like you said, that I can also wear throughout the day.
Here's one for the algorithm haha.. not a runner and not really in the market for a fitness watch, but interesting to hear your thoughts
Thinking of switching to this one over a Fitbit charge 4. I’ve gotten into longer runs (my max used to be 10k, but I’m training for 15k and half marathons now) and the Fitbit just can’t hold a long enough charge.
So if i am going to run maybe a 5k every other day and bike also would you recommend getting this watch?
can you upload a track on the watch and then run it?
Hey bro normally when you run do you use the gps(normal) or the gps+glonass? I tried using both and it makes no difference when I run
Can set this watch to permanently show my heart rate whilst on a 2-3 hour run ?
Great informative video, thanks a lot! Is this watch only for running though? What if I wanted to cycle or do the elliptical can you change activities on it?
Will this sinc up to map my run? My dad is looking to upgrade his original fitbit to this and that is a big thing fitbit did
Can I connect AirPods to it, to listen to music while running without my phone?
I race in Duathlons (run, bike, run).  I need a watch that will record my first run, then record my second run separately.  Most importantly, I don't want to be fussing around with saving the first run and getting the watch ready to record the second run.  Does anybody know how I can accomplish these recordings with relative ease?
My phone GPS broke on my last cell phone and I got some interesting maps when running. 🤣
whether the garminforerunner 235 is waterproof ?
Nice and clear review. I was about to buy a used one from marketplace but I would like it to have a touch screen and it does not have an option for trail running and soccer that I do. Plus, it is a 2015 model.
Just ordered Pro 6. Love the scenery where you are. I'm former 5,10k and marathon runner ( low 2:20's ) now 66 yrs old so the larger screen and metrics will keep interest up. I have two bulging duscs but running slower is less painful than walkiing. Great video!
Nice Review! I really dig the "Pace Pro" feature on the Fenix 6. Unfortunately I've discovered that it's limited to 14:00 miles as a maximum pace. This is fine for most Marathon runners but once you get into Ultra marathons up to 100 miles in length only a small percentage of ultra runners are running that kind of pace. Most are in the 16-20 minute/mile range. I hope garmin can update this feature in Garmin Connect!
Thanks for the reviews, I got a Forerunner through your site based on your reviews.  Best in the business
Great review as always, complex topic in a quick review. I’ll read the full review tonight. First impression is that Garmin is getting way pricey. Their base model Fenix, which is now the Pro, is $700! What they are calling their base is really the same as their high end running watches, but with the Fenix look. I am waiting for someone to change the market by providing a 200-300ish dollar watch with maps, music, training, open water swim, power meter connectivity and multi-sport mode. There is no reason that couldn’t be done except for some unwritten agreement that all these things are only in “high end” watches. Someone needs to break the cabal.
waiting for a swim run in open water, i really interested to accuracy of this watch vs the Apple Watch 4 that was way better than the garmin 5 during your test
Still really think a Seiko Kinetik style charging would make the most sense for watches for running and hiking. In the winter I always have the watch under my clothing to save battery and avoid cooling the wrist. So during the part of the year when topping up the battery is needed, solar won't help.
Folks I’m glad to introduce the Garmin Fenix 7x which now in addition to solar now has a kinetic dial in the back of the watch which rapidly charges your watch if you’re running 👏🏻 
As always, such a descriptively helpful review. However on given option which watch would you prefer personally for your training & fitness, "Polar Vantage V Titan" or "Garmin Fenix 6x Pro Solar"?  proviso when no strings are attached. Thanks!
Hey DC rainmaker. I've been watching and reading all your reviews about fenix 6 suunto 9 polar grit x (and coros) . They all are good watches. But can't see which one would be the most accurate in terms of purely GPS and data (specially for mountains activities and running) if we don't look at the rest they are offering. Any advise ? Thanks for your work
Hey, thanks for great videos. I currently use a Wahoo Element when mountainbiking and an Apple Watch for everyday use for overall health and fitness. But, I have started looking at a Garmin Instinct or Garmin Fenix 6x to replace my wahoo and use as a training watch. Whats the pros and cons compared to my bike computer and Apple Watch? Cant decide which way to go… I really love my apple watch but miss some fitness functions.
Could you make a comparison between the new watch and the forerunner 645 music? I'm interested in activity tracking in particular.
Warning to anybody about to buy: Fenix 6 pro has VERY POOR accuracy even in moderate reception conditions. I mean you don't have to be in thick woods to experience this, for example -  even on a totally straight paved road, with trees on both side of the road, your running pace could be off by 10-20 sec per kilometer. This is not normal. Once you're on the clear though, it is as accurate as previous fenix line watches. I have compared it with having three different fenix watches at the same time (one on each arm + one in my hand), and with different settings (GPS alone, GPS+GLONASS, GPS+GALILEO); and of course, I'm using 1 sec as the measurement interval. (My son has exactly the same watch, and it has exactly the same accuracy issues, so it's not just my watch, that's broken)
Hey, this is a fantastic film, thank you. I have just bought a Fenix 6 Pro for general health and fitness tracking but I do not use a smartphone. Can I still use the majority of the watch features with Garmin Express and Garmin Connect on a Windows PC? I have done this with a Vivosmart 4 but I wondered if I could use the Fenix in the same way?
Hi. Is it possible to still see the pace, heart rate ECT while you follow the GPS routes? Can you change between the "options" while running? I hope this makes sense
I got excited when I read about the nacho cheese dispenser,snap on runs yay! 😆
Good video. Thank you! Perhaps you could do a test from a runner's point of view regarding the distance measured by the fenix 6. There are reports in the Garmin forum that the 6 measures the wrong distance during the run. So on a staked route, the fenix probably does not show a distance of 1 km for some, but 50 meters less in each case. This falsifies the pace. Sure, a stryd can make up for that, but can you confirm this discrepancy? Allegedly, the fenix is ​​said to have recorded the distance too short even after the run. I would be happy about your experiences. A video would be great.
Can you get the storm alerts while you record an activity like running?
Wow! That is some watch. A watch for Galileo….he was the first person to wear a clock on a chain around his neck (-;. What do you think about the medical data…does it do a good job? Sleep data? Blood pressure monitor?
Good video. Thank you! Perhaps you could do a test from a runner's point of view regarding the distance measured by the fenix 6. There are reports in the Garmin forum that the 6 measures the wrong distance during the run. So on a staked route, the fenix probably does not show a distance of 1 km for some, but 50 meters less in each case. This falsifies the pace. Sure, a stryd can make up for that, but can you confirm this discrepancy? Allegedly, the fenix is ​​said to have recorded the distance too short even after the run. I would be happy about your experiences. A video would be great.
Looking at a Fenix 6 base for my first watch. Looking for health monitoring features for running/hiking/weightlifting… not interested in maps and not looking for wifi connectivity. Current Sale price is in my range and i like the look of it. Dont want an apple watch… Any input is welcomed…
I would mainly use it for running.
I am in a plan and need to do 15k tomorrow. But i have to choose the session, or to run with pacepro which is what i want to do. If i run with pacepro, will detect garmin coach as a training session of the day?
Hi DCR! I need to replace my Garmin Forerunner 920 XT. What would be a good replacement? Thanks!
I've been trying to pick the perfect watch after my previous died, and I'm having trouble making a decision. I'll be using the watch for running, biking, weight training, indoor rowing, golf, and hiking. I'm leaning towards the 6x as I want something durable and will last for years, however I'm not sure if the sapphire screen is worth the extra money. If you get some time I would greatly appreciate your feedback on this. I also checked out your website, great review!!
DC Quick Question.. I just got the fenix 5x Plus from REI. Should I return it and get this? I upgraded from the 3 mostly for the pulse ox but its miserably slow to measure? I am a Ultra runner Thanks
Walk/run its measures if you walk or run or inactive during a run. But the data isn't right how can I change that?
U saved me few seconds for me to sleep!
Do I need to make my garmin fenix 5 always connected to iphone bluetooth to get metrics of running or Can it auto upload it when I go back home via wifi? I am not using phone notification on watch, just the metrics.
I guess this watch is probably outdated by now - but I was hoping I could get some input. I want a new watch, primarily for running, but also everyday use. The Garmin Fenix 6 and the Polar Vantage M2 are now almost the same price in my country. I much prefer the look and weight of the M2, but everybody loves the Fenix series so much. Would it be stupid to buy the M2 when they're essentially the same price? If I do, what do I miss out on? Hoping some kind folks would be able to advice me :)
So which to buy a 6S Pro or the new 945, as someone who is purely a runner
Great review....Do they plan to add Fenix 6 features into Forerunner 945?
6x pro vs Apple Watch series 6 optical reader. I run my heart rate, no strap, on this morning heart rate run, my Garmin alerted me I was high at 120 which is good but it just kept going higher, top off at 167, meanwhile wearing Apple Watch on other wrist the rate showed I was at 109, and based on my breathing and talking the 109 is correct. People on Facebook are telling me get a strap which is not a problem but do you see a trend with optical sensors on Garmin watches. I like the convenience of the optical sensor but that’s a big difference when you run by heart rate. Thanks for listening
but do you run with your watch facing towards sun?
Next video idea: I was curious if a US purchased Garmin, Polar or Suunto watch maps would work straight away in Europe or another part of the world. As a triathlete who travel to the European championships and back to Kona hawaii I want to be able to use my running watch without having to pay and download new maps to it. Garmin I know charges $70+ (ridiculous) for each country map using Garmin Express. Is there a watch that has it all?
Dose the Garmin Fenix 6X Pro GPS Watch - Black Case with Black Band  can you chance the watch face to look your dog and so on dose it have a feature where it has sleep tracker I know you said in the video it’s got a heart tracker I’ve got like $1800 bucks comeing and I want a really good watch but no Rolex :) so yeah good if you could answer them questions please I was going to get the Casio G-SHOCK GPS Solar Rangeman Watch find out by videos that was just a big gps watch
I purchased a Garmin Instinct after one of your videos and it was perfect for hiking and biking and running. I only wish they’d add a surf option without buying a new watch. 
Like the solar and wrist based HR for swimming. I hope they fixed the terrible job the Fenix 5X plus does sleep recording. I use my 3HR for that. I probably won't use a lot of the other new features. Garmin needs to stop trying to have an all-in-one thousand dollar watch. They should split their watches to adventure, social and sports/activity trackers. The solar watch will extend backpacking performance time.
I need the nacho cheese dispenser! :D Perfect for the long runs!!
What a lvoely place for a run, where is this? Thanks.
The reason you saw more running versus hiking could be because of the big issues that Garmin acknowledges but hasn’t fixed with the hiking sport profile.
Can someone please help me ASAP! I want to buy a Garmin for my husband but I don’t know what to get. He’s a runner. I know he mentioned he would like GPS tracking but I don’t know what model to get. Help!
I have just bought the new 945 forerunner...... this sucks... why garmin has two series of watchs? What's the focus on 945 and fenix 6 series?
Personal preference I don't care about all the fitness stuff in all the smart watches. The one thing I'm curious about, since you've had hands on, how do you think it would hold up in a desert environment, including chemicals like jet fuel, and a few close call explosions? Yes this is a legitimate question 🙂
Maybe you see it in running becaus the cheaper watches like the vivoactiv 4 aso have no hiking activity...
Solar feature seems to be only a gimmik, adding up to 10% to max runtime. I will stick to the saphire version which worked for me in previous versions. Solar is just not worth it.
Is me or anyone notice just talk run, climb, GPS, but no one talk about the music feature, wallet app, wi-fi feature, Bluetooth feature, i purchase mine like 15 minutes ago, kind of red flag to me little worried
I just purchased a Garmin Fenix 6X pro watch that did not turn on. After sitting on Garmin's chat support line for 30 minutes, I learned that they have no idea how to turn the watch on either. I asked to return the watch, which I bought from the Garmin website and got the runaround that I didn't try their troubleshooting tips. I tried everything they asked. I just want the watch to work as advertised.
Found out that the pro has no virtueel runner ..... a high end watch schould have it all.
The forerunner has the virtueel runner ?
I'm in my 50s.  I'm obese.  I have type II diabetes and high blood pressure.  If I get Covid-19,  I have a very high chance of getting severe complications.  I started intermittent fasting. I bought a new exercise bike in June. I bought a Garmin Vivosmart 4 in July to hold myself accountable to my fitness goals.  I started walking.   I'm down almost 45kgs so far.  Coronavirus gave me the impetus to change and that motivated me to buy my fitness watch.
OMG... 1hr of fitness information on watches. Great Job you two!!
Great video guys, loved watching it! As a runner I love learning about all these watches!
What an excellent summary of the current fitness watch market. Thank you
The Fitness League meets again!  That was a great summary, Des and Ray.
The best pair of fitness reviewers. I love these annual reviews. These companies should focus on accuracy rather than all these mickey mouse features they dream up.  The numbers mean nothing if they aren't accurate. Master the basics then consider adding features. Thanks guys!
Hello Gentlemen, as usual a very well done and helpful video. A recommendation for future end of year (EOF) reviews would be to add some comparison charts for Us data geeks. For example, it would be huge to see a chart of battery life comparisons across all the devices (maybe with a standard settings like; GPS use during activities, pulse ox during sleep only, like watch faces, etc.). Thank you very much for all the diligent, and hopefully fun, work on both of your vlogs.
Thank You so much guys for putting this together. I picked up running again over two years ago and currently using an Apple Watch 4 but in the market for a fitness first device to bring up my training to another level. I’m a data guy and never realize how much I’m missing out using an Apple Watch though I will miss the Apple ecosystem and smart watch features. Lots of options out there and I’m leaning towards Coros Apex or Apex pro but I keep finding myself looking at options thanks to all your reviews and recommendations. Keep up the great work! Much appreciated.
Nice thorough review of watches. I know that you test every fitness/running watch available but when you aren't testing something, what is the fitness watch you personally use?
Great review Fellas I just ordered the Garmin forerunner 745 The Red one
FANTASTIC collaboration! Was great viewing - hopefully, a good experience for you guys. So, do you 'flip' to do the editing? ;-) During 2020, I switched from trail running & ultra's to golf - yes, Ray...golf! Here in South Africa (Johannesburg), it's been easy and safer to 'gather' on a golf course. Garmin Vivoactive 3 still works for me as it combines enough running & golf features (only 4 golf courses at a time - which need to be downloaded). Thanks.
Polar vantage V (now on sale...) or coros pace 2? As an advanced running training gps. Thanks!!!!
Had a Casio G-Shock watch for about 12 years. Looks similar to the watch in the show - as do all G-Shocks. 200m water resistant. Solar power charges a capacitor, not a battery - had to have mine changed recently. Also satellite set time. It's great but it's not smart. I need to monitor heart rate following massive familial hyper cholesterol based heart attack in April. Want to get back on bike, running, swimming, with a bit of gym. Most important is controlling immediate transition from main effort to extended cool down for steady heart rate reduction to rest. Looking forward to their recommendations within my budget.
What watch (or watches) would you suggest for me? I use an iPhone, I'm a trail hiker, road cyclist, and occasional runner and referee, but also train indoors circuit & weight training, treadmill runs, indoor bike training (zwift) on a Wahoo Kickr Snap, and I have a wahoo element with Tickr HR.
One question: can you make customized running routines with the Casio move app?
Asking because I wish to upgrade from my Garmin 375 soon and yes, money is an issue and also I’m a casual runner. But I really like and it’s super useful making customized runs in the Garmin connect.
I need both fitness and smart watch... I have days where the smart watch is more essential than a fitness watch.  I'm still reviewing Garmin watches so many varieties and they put some important features in a pricy low end and other important ones in higher end versions.
Talk about analysis paralysis inducing! My dream fitness tracker would have Garmin's Firstbeat software, sleep tracking accuracy of Fitbit, heart rate accuracy of Polar O-10 (or within 5%), pulse oximeter accuracy of Apple Watch 6, and slim/lightweight design of Garmin's Vivosport 4.
am underwhelmed with the fitness and samsung health app. Would you recommend
Fantastic video guys. Where is Forerunner 655?
Great video. What has the best HRM, I find my Denix 5 for anything nut running is pretty much useless, I feel a bit of a weirdo wearing one at the gym.
I have Fitbit Sense and i use it more for Sleep Recording Status.
Is it any other better health watch with better Sleep Recording Functions?
Kindly suggest which smart watch should I go for as I am fitness athlete and workout I do is crossfit and strength training
So for someone who just started running, not looking to do marathons or triathlons what is the best band for the buck to keep track of heart rate, distance, and gps? I'm town between polar and garmin watches.
Please do a review on gshock asics collabs and the runmetrix app.. much appreciated love from malaysia
Hey Des ,what do u suggest for fitness smartwatch among apple se and garmin venu sq?!
Do you think the FR745 would be more appealing at even $450 vs $500, as that would put it at a midway point between the FR245M and the FR945.  I feel that at $400 for the FR745 that in a sense makes the 245M overpriced when you factor in the multisport modes and more advanced training and recovery metrics (and the ability to pair a power meter to the 745 with the ability to perform guided FTP tests for cyclists, and conduct guided lactate threshold tests for running).
Hi, I'm looking for a new sportwatch i have now a fenix3 and i'm looking towards the forerunner 945 and the polar vantage v2. I do a bit of cycling , but my main activity is running especially from 10k to half marathons. And next year my first full marathon. I train alot on a track and i know that fr945 has a specific option for the track has the vantage this option as well? I read a lot that fr945 has the option mapping and offfline music storage but i have always my phone with me for ICE situations. I want the best watch for training and the best data overview. Can you please help me decide? Thanks
Following massive heart attack in April, I have a Polar HR10 heart rate strap so I don't have to rely on heart rate monitoring on a watch but could have a watch display the HR10 data - if possible. I can install my Samsung J5 phone on my bike handlebars - it has GPS, of course, and can display my Polar HR10 data, but it's not water resistant. So heart rate and GPS would be useful but not essential for watch if watch can display the heart rate and phone data with the phone in a waterproof bag and not visible. Want to get back to riding, running, swimming. Any suggestions please? Budget preferably maximum of £200 / $266
The sense and versa 3 heart rate issues is driving me nuts! It's a perfect device for me, but the heart rate issue is just so ridiculous and unacceptable for a watch that it supposed to be more of a fitness tracker than a smart watch. I loved the fact that I could do voice text replies (android), but the heart rate inaccuracyyyy... 😭
So which watch has music, good for running and biking, and is budget friendly?
Which smartwatch has the best sleep tracking?
I had a Garmin Fenix 6 and sold it for a Polar Vantage V2 when it came out. Why? The GPS chip in the Fenix 6 is absurdly inaccurate skewing all the other running metrics to being just a vague guess really. I would never have picked this up if it wasn't for the fact I run with my wife and the distances with her Fenix 5 and my Fenix 6 was almost 10% variation consistently. Anyway, with the Polar our runs are usually +- 5 meters which is fantastic. Just a heads up if you want a Fenix 6, be aware its GPS chip is not the same as the other models.
what about forrunner 945?
I'm actually planning to buy best fitness tracker could you please help me
They removed the Golf function from the FORErunner.
8:29 Garmin Forerunner 45, Garmin Forerunner® 245/245 Music, Garmin Forerunner® 945
-sleep tracking
Hello, do you plan to review the vivomove style? I would like to know how it handles the gym. I have a vivosport and if I am doing anything other than running reads a heart rate close to my resting
What do you recommend for mostly road cycling and maybe a little running in the future for under $350?
Great collab guys!! However, I don't understand why you don't seem to review Amazfit devices: Amazfit bip, Amazfit Stratos 3 and so on... These devices are very popular in the budget fitness watch sector. Would it be possible for you to start noticing Amazfit 😜.... They are here to stay!
Compared to other garmin, polar... sport watches which one would you definetely recommend for runners in a range of 200-300$? By the way u are the best sport reviewers!Thank u lots!
I am consfused in between garmin vivo active 4 vs galaxy active 2. along with running I also play tennis regularly. so please suggest watch that has tennis mode in it.
Which watch should I choose. I need accurate sleep, blood oxygen info, heart rate tracking (basically all health areas possible in a watch)... which watch is best for this?
HI I used  235 and edge 25 for mtb , I saved up and upgraded to Fenix 5x and loved the training status and vo2 max recovery time,  Since covid 19  I've taken to Trail running and all my training status has gone, I get a message (run twice outdoors with a heart rate to see your status) does this mean none of these functions work only on flat roads or track running. is the fenix 6 the same ?
But they still don't end up on the watch, so when i look at my watch, it doesn't give me correct readings for stress and overall fitness score.
Made the decision to leave apple as a fitness watch.  Seems like the cycling function works well on all products.  Swimming is critical looking for durability and data on swimming and of course a low cost point.  Any recommendations?
hi thank you for this review, you guys are definitely the best out there. If I can add something, I was expecting a bit more details on the Fenix 6, it did have few new features that were ported to the 945 at later stage. I am using the Fenix 6 x for a while now and for my surprise some features are just useless, like the body battery works only if you wear the watch during the sleep otherwise just gives some random results based mostly on the time you set for sleeping hours. what is most annoying though, I am training mostly indoor on the treadmill because of the weather and for my surprise ALL the sport features, like Vo2max,  lactate threshold , training status do not work!! According to the watch I am not training at all even if I ran 50km these week, very disappointing.
I have the Vivoactive 3 and I must say that I am disappointed in the battery life claimed vs reality. Then when I talk to the people at the store they say, “oh you must switch the Bluetooth off and switch off the backlight and switch off the heart rate monitoring and switch off the blah blah blah....”. Well then I may as well buy a blooming normal watch as with everything I switch off to save battery life, I lose part of why I bought the blasted thing. Heck, I may as well keep the watch off and only switch it on when I want to see the time.  I’m sure I’ll get great battery life then! I’m not a massive fitness fanatic, but love these watches for step tracking, heart rate and built in GPS, but boy oh boy, I’d love to get the advertised battery live.  So now I’m thinking of getting a Garmin Fenix 6 just so that I don’t have to stress about chargers when I go overseas for a week or into the bush for a week. Is that too much to ask?
I’m looking into smart watch/fitness tracker don’t have a big budget I’d like to know your opinions on the amazon watches under $120 Australian
which watch would you pick if you had 3 to 4 hundred dollars to spend for fitness and smart notifications?
Hey question I'm working out and my coach recommends to buy a sports watch that measures my rest, sleep, stress and heart rate. She recommend the Polar brand special de Ignite is this something you would also recommend? I also came across the Polar vintage m, Polar vintage v, Samsung active 2 and the Garmin 245 what would you recommend?
Des - Looking to replace an old Forerunner 220.  I am trying to stay in the $250 range.  I was looking at the Garmin 245, maybe 645 on sale, or the Coros Pace.  Mostly trail running, then mtn bike and road bike secondary.  Any thoughts between those 3 or should I look at others?  Just down I25 from you in Co Spgs :)
It sounds like 945 is the best watch as far as I can tell. If budget is not an issue what would you recommend, especially for running? I want as many features as possible. Does it make sense to wait a bit for another model? A bit surprised with Coros feedback but it does sound fair.
Really like both of these guys videos, but find it weird they never talk about how bad Garmin is at sleep tracking. Had the Venu for over a month and really loved it, but the sleep tracking was so useless I decided to return it. Focusing on fitness aspects is fine, but sleep/recovery is also important imo.
Which watch do you recommend as far as fitness tracking? Like most accurate heart rate reading, calories burned, but also has smart watch features?
I would want a watch that does these things: multisport, navigation (I want to do some trailruns) and music.
It is hard for me to think of an Apple watch as a good running/sports watch.  I view an Apple watch as a smart watch that *can* do sports functions, while a Garmin Fenix 6 (for example) is a running/sports watch that *can* do smart watch functions.  If I want a "smart watch", Apple it is.  If i want a running/sports watch, Garmin, it is.  As cool as an Apple watch is, how well will it do at a Spartan or Tough Mudder?  Even just a trail? The Spartan VA trail, at one point, I was waist deep in water and the Garmin took a few hits.  How well would the Apple hold up?  Each has their own niche.
✨ I do swimming, gym and walking. For me, the watch's most important features are sleep control, pedometer, and batterylife. What do you recommend? I have a Huawei p10. ✨
Hi guys, which watch would you recommend for some who wants to improve their fitness/strength, mainly road cycles in a low elevation area but rarely runs/swims with a budget of £200?
As for me, Polar vantage V is the best one for running and checking my health
Where would you recommend to buy a fitness watch? I've seen great deals at like GPS Nation or Planet Cyclery online. Are places like these trustworthy? Thanks 😊
Can these watches be used on running or swimming or whatever you do, without any connection with smartphones?
Great video.  Really helpful, as always.  I noticed that you criticised Coros pricing, and I think one of the (relatively cheap) Polar models, but why do you never criticise Garmin, who make maybe the most over-priced products in the entire world?  The Forerunner 945 costs $945 in Australia, which is outrageous. And these aren't old-school  luxury watches, the type that last forever and get handed down to the next generation.  They only last a few years, typically.  And while their watches usually do have some impressive features, they are almost always disappointingly way behind the times for certain basic features.  How long did we have to wait for music?  (and it was rubbish when it first arrived - only recently have they added streaming ; the 920XT, which isn't all that long gone couldn't even double as an everyday wrist watch, which was soooo dumb.  And don't get me started on the early versions of Garmin pedals). Come on guys . It's 2020. What's the saying about putting a man on the moon? Someone needs to stick up for all of us who aren't in a position to do so.  If they cut all their prices in half across the board, then maybe they'd be approaching fairness.  Maybe.
I got garmin and its perfect watch except sleeping tracking is rubbish 
No where near fitbit they should work more on sleeping mode.
The Venu is an excellent watch with a beautiful display that Garmin, unfortunately, doesn't take advantage of. The  Garmin ecosystem in and of itself is limited, few watch faces are available to really show off that screen, and even fewer apps. In the end, smart watch makers will catch up with the fitness tracking capabilities of companies like Garmin, and they'll have the ecosystem to keep their audience involved. I mean, Garmin doesn't even have a calculator app that    is usable for the Venu-or a map to use the GPS. You could argue that it's a new direction for Garmin, give it time, but at the price point they're asking, I doubt many will be convinced to make the initial purchase-not when you have other watches with more support that do the same thing. Not to mention they're competing against themselves with the vivoactive 4-they're all priced the same for the holidays $ 300.
I'm deciding between 245 and 645 Music. I've heard some rumours that the barometer is kinda bad, and doesnt really matter if you upload your runs to Strava anyway.  
It seems as if these high end smartwatches have problems with accurate readings. Can anyone help me find a cheaper/accurate smartwatch that tracks calories burnt when running and biking. Possibly a GPS and heart rate monitor included although not essential.
Is this a advertisement for Garmin? Why not show the Pilar Vantage V Titan ? Garmin sleep works while sitting in the kitchen drawer over night and gives you REM and deep sleep all while sitting in the kitchen drawer.
As an owner of the Garmin 645, I’m super annoyed that it’s been left behind vs the 245 and 945 for running features like pace pro...poor show on garmin’s side!
LOL on sleepy @ fitbit_ same here ... The only thing I hate on Garmin for is that they have no buyback or recycling program yet they release a ridiculous amount of watches with both superfluous and confusing features. There must be a land fill in Africa full of these things.
Hi... im new in running is the vivoactive 3 is good for the first timer like me? Thank you sir desfit and Dc.. God Bless Merry christmas...
Q: But is polar grit X better running watch than FR945?
Are Amazfit watches good for fitness?
Rather boring. I wish you would focus more on the software than the hardware. The Garmin watches are still light years behind where they should be. Building products with 3 separate teams watch, connect.com, connect app is an absolute disaster. They've never understood the needs of a multisport athlete. They just don't have an eye for any detail, it's very unpolished work (you ever notice the running man animation on the Connect App - it's very juvenile. The back upper arm actually pokes up under the head when it should be hidden). There's a ton of issues with how they track mileage, everything goes through the cloud, but the cloud does no error detection. The biggest thing, is they can't do what they say they can to with the Training Status/V02 because they're so volatile. On false reading (which will happen with OHR) totally throughs everything nuts. For example, my V02 Max has dropped from a 79 to a 69 in the corse of one week on a Fenix 6. Is that physically possible for body to go to crap like that? Also, note the fudging of numbers Garmin has been doing. If you use the chest strap for you running, you'll notice they rolled out an update around January. From that point on you'll see a lot more 50/50 L/R Foot balance scores. Prior to this it wasn't out of the norm to get 49.2/49.9 score (which is impossible). Most importantly, on a running aspect they lack a lot of basic features that would make the user experience much greater. Example the new features the rolled out in the Connect App last week where the lap view has more features with your programmed workout, as well as the main synopsis page giving an interval time an average omitting warm up and cool downs.
Ok. Do not buy Galaxy watch series if you're runner or cyclist.
These are tools Guy. I categorically wanted a higher end, lux styled watch to do my running. Glad these came out. It is to be used and enjoyed.
Forerunner 935 (tri) for daily wear and sports.. Omega for elegant occasions.. can't beat that combo :)
How many of the widget changes will make it onto the current Fenix and forerunner 935 series?
I've got several garmin devices now - my daily wear is a VA4.  I use it to track general workouts, running, biking, but I also use its golf features pretty extensively.  They just released the MARQ golfer which has some really compelling features without taking away the activity stuff I want (like the Approach series does) - but at $1800, that is a pill I'm not willing to swallow.  I would, however, give it a second look if the screen were improved over the VA4, which, from reading the comments and watching the video, does not seem to be the case.  I definitely do not want amoled, but at the very least, resolution needs to be improved on their screens to ask this much money.
Can they each do the functions of each other? Example, I like the look of the aviator but need the driver and expedition functions. I personally use a 5x plus for motorcycle touring adventures(maps, with bluetooth directions), fitness and I do own a race car.. If they are only for each watches name(aviator cant do drivers functions) then which one fits me?
Hey DC why would it be obsolete? If it is charged it will run right? It's just not up to date with the newest software.....or do you think otherwise?
I'd buy an American made Music Man Stingray which will work perfectly for decades to come and hold value really well. A Forerunner 235 suits me just fine ;-)
Yeah, i love Garmin watches better than any other sport watch out there.  And don't even mind spending $1,500 on it.  But one of the important things for me is weight.  Lighter is better.  I don't want the watch weighing me down.  The MARQ athlete misses the mark on weight.  Put all that tech in the new Forerunner 936, and you got yourself another best seller Garmin.
It seems like ultimate everyday watch - you can use them for training and they don't seem like a sport watch st least on the first sight and ... wait ... I'm using Forerunner 620 as the only watch, they are in the quite bright blue colour and it's totaly alright. And they are probably $2,450 cheaper than this creature 🙂.
Do you know what I can buy with that amount of money? An Apple Watch 4 that works fine; and then professional fitness testing and advice at my local university that's far more useful.
1500 $ and still that crappy LCD screen! I‘m not moving from my Forerunner 935 until they make a watch with a dcent display.
Thanks a lot for the video!! Great one!! Can I have your advice? I already have a forerunner 245. Should I get the edge 530. Do you recommend to get it? I use my watch to do some other type of sports such as swimming. 
I wrap my 1030's wrist strap over the handlebars to keep it on the bike if disaster strikes. You know what would be great? A review of screen protectors and after-market cases for fitness computers if you haven't done one already. Thanks for the vids!
Ray, second time i need some support for this edge. Question: is there a reason why i find strava segments' unselected in garmin connect's segments menu? When this happens i find 'garmin segments' selected so i change the setting to 'strava'...but it does not last... i have 2 devices (forerunnner 920 & edge 530). This happens wth android app and web app...
Hi man, is there some cooperation with a watch? for example with Garmin Fenix? I mean calculating the training load if you do any other sports (running)?
Can the Edge 530 read power data from my Wahoo Kickr while the Kickr is paired to a PC running Zwift.   And how the hell did riding a bike get this complicated :-)
Still lacks configuring the head unit from the app. As someone who runs a number of screens for various activities, this seems like a no-brained but I suppose Garmin thinks it’s a one-time setup so the investment in the app isn’t worth it.
I still don’t get why anyone would buy a standalone bike computer at all - multi sport watches are way more useful in terms of what 80% of the planets sports people need. It’s literally like buying a point and shoot camera when you have a great camera in your mobile phone. Moving maps equates to having a mechanical shutter - yup sounds great? No one uses it, touch screen display? Yup, overkill, an up and down button works just fine and more tactile too. You can’t go for a run with a stand-alone, swim, dive, activity counting, use as a normal work/notification wrist top device etc etc 
7:37 the correct way to say that is “how many bottles you should have drunk...” Not “should have drank”.
Hello, very nice video! I have  2 questions. I own a Garmin fenix 3 and a Garmin fenix 5 plus. I tried both of them on a treadmill and the fenix 3 is extremely accurate about the PACE - distance while the fenix 5 plus even after several calibration is not accurate at all. Any suggestion about this issue? Maybe something I'm not doing properly?  The second question is about the VO2 ... does it change after a treadmill work out or it is affected only by an outdoor run? Thank you!!! :D
Hey, can you charge the watch while tracking a tour/run without losing any data?
Hmmm the possibility to test if you're having sleep apnea with the pulseox
Is the Bluetooth signal on the Fenix 5 plus strong while steaming music via the watch? Or is it flaky like the Garmin Forerunner 645?
Just curious, what headphones are they - I'm looking into getting something for running that would pair with my 645 Music...ta - no rush.
No sleep details in the watch? Still waiting for that...
It's runnig with Bluetooth 5??
I have the 5 Plus that I got a week ago and am wondering how I get VO2 max & Training Status settings configured. I'm a cyclist and hiker, not a runner and when I go to widgets and locate the VO2 max display it says to run 10 minutes with heart rate 2 times. It also says 'No Status' for my training status and the same message about running 2 times. I've got several hiking activities already logged and saved. Appreciate any help. Thanks.
Quick question: did you get so healthy from running alone?
I dont think 2 days is a long enough to review any HR watch. Especially it's sleep/awake functions. Just mho
Excellent hands-on review on the features and how to operate the Garmin Forerunner 35. Nice one mate 👍
Hi, thanks for the detailed review. I've been running for about 4 years and finally looking to get a watch to track my runs instead of my phone. Looks like this is the right one for me.
Can you add kayaking activity on the Forerunner 35
Can you use a footpod for this for indoor running on a track?
Hello,i just want to ask about the meteo coz is it only me that can't  see the meteo in my garmin forerunner 35 it always says waiting for data even though it's already connected to my smartphone.
Does this give real time info if I'm doing a trail run? ie, can I see my pace and distance ran as I'm racing? Thanks
Does the watch track the pace of every miles ? I would like to improve my running time, currently I'm don't know what distance and time for my run.
hi, can you view a map of your run route on the connect app
Nice review.  I LOVE THIS Watch!  I really wanted a heartrate monitor on my watch but not all the other complicated stuff some of garmin watches offer.  When you download your run to your garmin app it will give you the cadence. It's SO SIMPLE.  I had an EPSON and I never did figure it out.
What about cirkle you run, did exist that?
Great review. I recently bought Vivoactive 3 as i do more than running now :-)
Great review, Jordan. I like to be able to review my activity without having to transfer the data anywhere. Am I able to call up my last run on the watch and scroll through the speed of each mile - I was able to do this on my 205 which has now expired.
I have seen the run walk feature on video, but is it also possible to apply walk/run/walk/run, or is this possible with the interval option?
Thanks, Jordan. Seems like a nice watch for the money. What's your regular fitness watch?
When using the watch does the gps record the location of your runs do you need your phone when running with the watch to record your location
Does the data transfer directly across to strava via iphone at end of a run or does it have to be near computer to do so?
In addition to running, can you use it for activities such as CrossFit or Zumba? My chest strap monitor is becoming a pain and I'm looking for a watch that will tell me my heart rate and calories burned during a workout.
Dude, help me out here pls. Vivoactive 3 and Forerunner 35 are now on sale for $99. Which one should I pick ?
Garmin forerunner 35 or Huawei gt2e sport ? What do you think ?
I hear you saying the cadence feature is good for beginners but not for more advanced runners - how come? Thanks.
Thank you for the nice review.  I saw one at Walmart for $92.  You make me what to buy one.  😄.  One question if you don’t mind, please.  A reviewer at Amazon complained that when he was running at one speed, then he slowed down or he accelerated, this Garmin doesn’t update right away.  It takes “minutes” for Garmin to finally “responds” and “updates”.  Is that true?
Hey Guys! What watch do you use for running and why?
The worst fitness watch ever! I had this watch for about a year and a half and got extremely frustrated with it, especially the heart rate sensor, which was the reason I purchased it in the first place. I would do a HIIT workout in which I could barely breath or keep up and the watch would tell me my heart rate is 85 BPM. Sometimes it would jump to 120BPM maybe a 145BPM. Garmin support was not very helpful other than suggesting what I already tried,  Making the strap tighter, clean the sensor, shave my arm. None of that actually worked.
I couldn’t be more disappointed with the product and I have been very loyal to Garmin for years. Every Garmin product I have owned has been superb...until now. The heart rate measurement on the Forerunner 35 is pathetic. It is woefully inconsistent, often inaccurate, has frozen during several workouts, and is simply not dependable. If you row, ruck, do full body interval circuits, etc. or anything where you quickly and/or frequently move your arms, this is the wrong Garmin product.
Garmin should include a big, bold, italicized, and underlined disclaimer in the product description: “If your workouts are varied and more intense than steady state running, our chest strap products will be far more accurate, nearly always consistent, and far more dependable. Wrist-based heart rate measurement is NOT AS ACCURATE AS OUR CHEST STRAP PRODUCTS.”
Here we are three years later in 2020. The F5+ is an awesome watch that's still expensive, particularly because the Fenix 6 is out. Even the fenix 3 is still sold and expensive. I just got an F5+ Titanim Sapphire and it's just beautiful and functional. I'm a trail runner so I can't ask for anything better.
I just received the Fenix 5s today. Like you, I can't believe for this price Garmin did not add storage to the phone. I've gotten use to carrying my phone if I want to listen to music, but I would love not to have to carry "one more thin" when I run. Thanks for the video.
Great video thanks!  Has helped me make a decision.  My wife has the Forerunner 235, which has an absolutely awful screen resolution and put me off Garmin.  The Fenix 5 is about to release in NZ, so I'll have to check it out! :-)  Just subscribed.
How long it last before it obsolete? It is beautiful but does fitness tracker at this price point is worth it? I'm looking for my first real watch that looks good and tell time at a glance at my wrist, and maybe a bit of music control function(if I get a smartwatch like this instead traditional Quartz watch), fitness is not necessary for me as I think all the number I get from the data won't directly help me, I improve my jogging on my own way. Although I didn't own and experiences any fitness tracker yet, do you think fitness tracker make sense and useful for me?
I have fenix 5.. having gps problems while running
Fenix 5 Sapphire arriving today! A bit late as usual, for me; but I'm really looking forward to it! It'll defo be an upgrade and a half from the Forerunner 35 that I'm currently wearing. I'll let you know my thoughts in a week!
Been into fitness for decades looking forward to using this watch. Take a break from charging it all the time. Looking at you Galaxy 3. 👀
How long it last before it obsolete? It is beautiful but does fitness tracker at this price point is worth it? I'm looking for a watch that looks good and tell time at a glance at my wrist, and maybe a bit of music control function, fitness is not necessary for me as I think all the number I get from the data won't directly help me, I improve my jogging on my own way. Although I didn't own and experiences any fitness tracker yet, do you think fitness tracker make sense and useful for me?
sport watch? you know not everyone is training for the Olympics. why are all these watches made for fitness freaks?
Hi all! Hope you enjoy this look at what's inside the boxes. As noted, these are final production units from a hardware standpoint, however, they are currently running beta firmware.  Once I get final firmware, I'll aim for about 1-2 weeks later for an in-depth review, likely putting it mid-March. Plenty of goodness to come!
At first, chose the 5 over 5X due to batt stamina alone. But wait, my ultras would be >24hrs and have to bring charger/powerbank anyways and prices for both 5/5X sapphire/metal are the SAME...finally settled on 5X and I can now sleep better! GREAT and HELPFUL video, thanks!
DC please review the watch on a GYM/Workout environment, I know it's the best running watch but I want to know it's workout performance because Fenix 3 was weak and basically like a Fitbit...
I am taking pleasure to run and when I do a little better, now it is very cold in my land, I want to go out with the bike ... I have been looking at your blog to see if I decide on the 5 sapphire fenix but I get many doubts. ..
What do u think about the new sunnto Spartan Sport Wrist HR Baro, would you say is a good watch for running?
Can you explain the difference between the 5s and the 5s sapphire? i know that it pertains to WiFi but i am unsure what that means exactly. I currently have a forerunner 230 and am looking for a big upgrade. The 230 syncs to my phone when bluetooth is connected.
Thanks for the videos on the Fenix 5 series! Can you confirm a feature, or lack thereof, for me? The 5X has maps, and I believe the Round-trip Run and Round-trip Ride are tied to that. So I'm assuming the 5 and the 5S don't have that feature. Is that correct? I think it's a feature that could be included by using the Garmin Connect app on your phone, have it generate a route, and then send turn-by-turn directions to the watch. I know not everyone carries their phone with them when they run or ride, but some do. I do. It's like they built the watches, specifically the 5X, to be completely independent (understandable), but then don't even bother to consider all the additional features they COULD have had (on the 5 and 5S) were the phone present.
would you suggest Sunnto spartan sport wrist HR or Garmin fenix 5 for daily running with gps navigation? + DC Rainmaker
Garmin, until u put music storage on the Fenix or the Forerunner, I will be waiting impatiently on the sidelines with my old (but reliable) 920 xt.
After all the issues with the Fenix 2 failing to sync, I'll never run with Garmin. They must think people have money to burn so they can charge such high prices for unreliable gear. What's the point in creating a watch if you can't pull the data off it.
Great video. Have to say the Varia integration looks like a total afterthought from Garmin. Giant data fields but when a car might be ready to mow you down you get little bands running up the side? ....Really?
Could you also do a run with the 5s to compare the weight vs the 5?
Thank you for these Fenix 5 videos... so how about with a 5x - a sky dive to a mountain, snowboard, road cycle, run to a beach and a swim!
I'm planning to buy a Fenix 5 of 5X to use as "dailydriver" to log various workouts as cycling, running, tabatta / strengthtraining, spinning, skiing etc.
Hi Ray, thanks for this video ;) Would it be possible to have a review of the mapping options for the 5X (my main point is, can I enter an address to bike/run to like the edge 820?). Thanks again, and enjoy Spain
Great video. Thank you for constantly making my wife go crazy with how much I spend on fitness tech. And on that note... which gimbal did you get to work with the virb ultra 30?  I don't need one at all, but of course I am going to get one. Thanks for all you do for our community.
Is it normal for the pace to oscillate during a relatively constant running speed?
How long it last before it obsolete? It is beautiful but does fitness tracker at this price point is worth it? I'm looking for my first real watch that looks good and tell time at a glance at my wrist, and maybe a bit of music control function(if I get a smartwatch like this instead traditional Quartz watch), fitness is not necessary for me as I think all the number I get from the data won't directly help me, I improve my jogging on my own way. Although I didn't own and experiences any fitness tracker yet, do you think fitness tracker make sense and useful for me?
Running at a 6 min/mile pace while holding arm up.. filming and having a conversation... HAA!!!  The gopro did a good job too.
Great. Cannot wait to upgrade my fenix 3 to 5x. It's a shame that the Apple Watch 2 is crap for Running, cause of inaccurancy.
If you have an Android device, can you try Sleep as Android with it?  I know it's still very much in Beta for Garmin devices right now, but I'd like to see how good it is.  Also I believe you should have some devices that are not so much in beta for SaA that you can compare.
A good smart alarm is a huge feature of a smartwatch for me but is hard to find good info about.  Sleep as Android is fantastic and very feature-rich from the phone end of things (controlling smartlights and everything) but having it be able to play nicely with a wearable or having the wearable be able to do it's own smart alarm would be better for a number of reasons.
Sadly, many of the devices it is easy to find info about using as a smart alarm also have TERRIBLE battery life and therefore need to be charged basically nightly as it is so it wouldn't easily fit in my daily routine (i.e. Android Wear), whereas several Garmins have enough battery life that I ought to be able to get my 24x7 info from them including sleep tracking/smart alarm and then some training in and still reliably make it to the weekend where I wind up tethered to my apartment and can charge it then anyways (laundry day).
Can't wait to see what trickles down to current Forerunner devices (via firmware update) and future Forerunner devices! Do you know if the Garmin Elevate sensor hardware is new or the same in older watches with firmware improvements?
Do the maps work with trail maps too? For hiking, mountaineering, trail running etc..?
I love the idea of watches. They definitely have the coolness factor. But until I'm running multiple marathons a year I can't justify the purchase in my mind.
DC Rainmaker who do you think the 5X appeals too?  If you aren't doing camping or hiking on a daily basis I am not sure I need the functionality.  If you are running around the city having different routes seems cool, but I don't know how often I would really use that feature.  What/who would you recommend the 5x over the 5 for?
Hey mate can you do a comparison of the accuracy of HR between the F5 and F3 HR in a workout (gym) and running scenario? Thanks mate.
Great video. Have to say the Varia integration looks like a total afterthought from Garmin. Giant data fields but when a car might be ready to mow you down you get little bands running up the side? ....Really?