Fénix 7 user here. It’s incredibly useful not only for running, I also use it on my bikes as a head unit mounting it on the handlebars, swim, skiing, everything. As a triathlete doing races where navigation is sometimes needed, it saves me from having to buy a separate GPS only for the bike. Also for trail running, you have a clear map so you never get lost.
I'm doing long autonomous mountain trips, and to have something that is a little helper in health monitoring, health(like aclimitizing to high altitude), and just a nice watch, you almost don't need to charge - this is amazing.
Im a out door paragliding instructor in the SE England travel all over find my salf in the mountains landing in remount places.
Great video as always! I use my Venu to track everything, run, gym, bike and also some rugby when it doesn’t has contact. Would love something more rugged and durable as the Enduro!
I have a Fenix 5s saphire and I love it ! It is the ideal guide on long bike rides and provides useful insights for running and triathlon. it's however unfortunate that Garmin doesn't include the new software features with the updates.
I do a lot of biking, trekking, mountaineering, wakeboarding, snowboarding, so I definitely need something like the Epix Gen 2 to stay durable through everything
I am looking for a watch that I can take with me for mountain biking. I wanted one with maps like Fenix or epic. This was a very useful video..🎉
Hello! Thanks for reviewing all those watches! I have been doing sports all my life but have never get a hand on any smart watches. May I ask what Garmin smart watch is suitable for mountaineering and at the same time able to upload stats on Strava? Would appreciate if any could recommend me one. Thanks!
I am a big fan of hiking, running, off-road, gravel bike. I think Garmin Enduro 2 would be perfect for a person like me!
I would go for the Epix pro of the Fenix. As someone who works in the outdoors and regularly finds themselves in harsh mountainous environments, or paddling on a range of rivers I'd love something that would survive a busy day at work, as well as something that could record lots of stats of my runs and walks! I still love my Forerunner 45s, but it is looking a bit battered after several years of constant daily use. :)
I'm doing an ultra next year in the Welsh mountains, so for me i'd love the mad watch. :-)
I’d love to upgrade to a Fenix pro or an Epix pro. My forerunner 245 is showing its age, and is surprisingly limited in what mountain sports it’ll actually track 😢
Great "average fitness person" review! Thinking about the 965 for the screen. I don't do iron mans or ultra marathons, just gym and bike a little, and I have the forerunner 935 for the battery life, and dont use my apple watch (4) as its just one more thing to charge everyday. I would get apple watch ultra, but i always have my phone, so there's no benefit for me. Like your channel, keep up the good work!
I actually use the Instict Solar. That thing is rugged. Own a Forerunner 255, but I only use it on intense training sessions to grab training performance data I can't get from the Instinct Solar. To be honest with you, all of these Garmin Watches do the exact same basic things and they're essentially bike computers on the wrist.
If you like this video you'll love our new podcast! We've extended our year-end chats to a regular, on-going podcast where we chat about all things sports tech including smartwatches, sportswatches, bike computers, bike trainers, trainer apps, and anything sports tech related. 👉 https://www.youtube.com/@thefitfile
To me there is one limitation of amoled that negates it for me. I want to use my watch as an always on bike computer straped to my handlebar for long rides on my road bike. Therefore MIP is my only option. I dont understand why this is not a bigger thing in amoled watch reviews. I dont want to reach for my watch every 30 secs to turn on the backlight.
Garmin really jumped on the solar side w their bike computers and the Fenix 7 solar. Wondering if other companies will move that way?
Thank you for a great video. Does the venu 3 show actual altitude (not just elevation gain)? Want to use it in mountaineering.
I am the happiest when on the bike.
I believe I might deserve the new Garmin FR955 because on Sunday I attempted to run the Edinburgh half marathon and failed pretty miserably. I was on track for a shiny new PB when nature 'called' for the second time that morning... (spicy wagamamas and a can of lager the night before was maybe not the best fuelling strategy 👀). As I was trying to seek out water and a potential portaloo I lost concentration, tripped myself up and almost face-planted. Thankfully I stopped myself, however in the process of doing so I pulled all the tendons in my left foot and had to do a 'hobble-of-shame' to a portaloo with a rather swollen foot and then get a bus to the finish line after only running five miles 🙈 I believe the new Garmin FR955 features such 'up-ahead' could help me in future races to be better prepared and avoid further clumsy scenarios. In addition the live tracking feature would be useful as I had to hobble and wipe my salty tears completely alone on Sunday as there was no event live tracking. The stamina feature could also prove beneficial as there is a strong possibility my stomach upset and lack of concentration were as a result of fatigue and silly pacing.  And finally the mention of the solar battery could also prove very useful as I'm hoping to complete a 70.3 Ironman in September to commemorate the end of my 20's. I think with my tortoise-paced swimming, my inability to clip in to my bike and the fact that I have a purple foot and I'm not sure how/if/when I'll run again, I could do with all the battery-life (and help) I can get to get me to the finish line😬
I deserve the new Garmin FR955  because I make up words, too. (Although I don’t have a random bike wheel hanging on my wall; maybe that’s what I need to become ‘seriously bench’)
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 as I am a student turning pro athlete in Skimountaineering. From the 1st of November on I will be paid by the national army for my sport successes. Therefore I will ditch my studies in mechanical engineering to some degree. So far I can not afford a gps watch of this level - and I won’t in close future, since there are different things I need to prioritize. Things like moving close to my training center, paying coach and trainingcamps will cost me a lot. And I am so into this neat piece of tech. It will surely help me develop physically.
Hi, I deserve or in fact my colleague deserves, as he is a sport master being a diabetic he is running on flat, running in mountains, working with kids, showing them how to train. He is showing that being a diabetic is not a disaster and motivates other people to change their life. He is a teacher with lot of passion and strong will. Of course he can be seen on his FB or YT channel. Thank you.
I deserve the garmin fr955 because I had an accident with my motorbike that almost cost me my leg. Now, 100 days after that I am visiting a rehabilitation pool which during the process I learned swimming!! So a garmin is the best gift to track my performance in the water and if I will walk without any problems with running  in the future!!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because, 2 years ago I was involved in an accident. The left my old Garmin Vivo Active HR a bit mangled. The accident occurred on my road bike, I was overtaken at the crest of a hill(11% descent on the otherside) by a pickup with a Kayak in the bed. Going down the hill, the pick up is accelerating away from me getting close to the 60mph speed limit, when all of a sudden the Kayak is launched from the bed of the pickup a couple meters into the air. It lands in the opposite lane, before sliding directly towards me and taking my front wheel out at about 40mph.
I deserve a FR955 because at 63 I have recently taken up mountain trail running. A limerick for the occasion: There was an old codger named Euan, who's tatty old kit needs renewing, then he saw a review of a Garmin brand new, which soon on his wrist he'll be viewing.
I deserve a FR955 because I have been using Garmin watches since the 310XT, and recently passed 50 000km with the 910XT 😁 using it on the bike and on the run.(occasionnaly on the swim)
I deserve the new Garmin Forerunner 955 because I broke my hip mountain biking, have needed 2* operations and now I'm trying to get back into training and get back into shape and get up to speed again.... The watch would be the business for me monitoring my recovery and especially the tracking accuracy as I do most of my training in dense woods and forests... The event notifications might come in handy too if (and when) I crash again 😳
I deserve a new Garmin FR955 because I tore my hip flexor at the 16th mile of the Edinburgh marathon and need cheared up. Especially since i had to be wheeled to the sweep up bus on a bike. So as well the disappoint of failing to finish I had the embarrassment of getting pushed on the back of very small bike 😄
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 as I have just moved to Switzerland, don’t know anyone, and I really want to take on those mountains first hand and make myself proud by tracking the overall progress on this until I can run and cycle uphill better and stronger!
I deserve the new garmin forerunner 955 solar because my vivoactive 3 has started to die and won't stay charged for more than a short jog.  However my garmin edge 530 is working fine, so cycling it is.  This is great apart from I want to have a go at triathlon and can't do that swimming and running with a bike computer.  Plus the FR955 is solar which means here in Sunny Somerset it will never ever need charging.  (I may have made that last bit up)
I know it will help me when I run and bike, and even when I'm rowing!
I deserve the Garmin FR955 because I've just done the Cycle For A Cure 2022 fundraiser for the type 1 diabetes charity JDRF. I was using another brand of less than reliable smart watch and on a few occasions it failed to log all of my miles.. back out on the bike it was, chugging glucose tablets to keep my sugar levels up 🙃
I wouldn’t say that I deserve it as such but I would like it as I would use it most days in the pool on a run and on a bike. I’m still old school with my tech so an update would be nice.
I deserve a Garmin forerunner 955 because I have never been able to afford one and as a cyclist on road and mountains it would make my year.
I deserve the Garmin Forerunner 955, because I need the extra battery life for my live sharing link! 😂 Especially for some of my big bike plans ahead! I’ve also destroyed my old Garmin watch from multiple MTB falls, I don’t think it’s very happy anymore😂
I deserve a FR955 because I run, I hike, I sleep and I bike (that was a small poem) and I have zero overview or some kind of plan for it. Yet :)
I would SO like to have the Garmin FR955, as it is now solar powered this will no enable me to save charging my current Garmin at home and given the new electric charges we all have to pay this will then save enough for my new bike, well that's what I will tell management !!!
I deserve a FR955 because… I just signed up for my first century bike ride and need to know if it’s time for coffee and cake!
I deserve it because I am a fat lad with great expectations and difficult goals. Up in the mountains (Snowdonia) a lot and my mrs is crazy that something will happen with me while I am overdoing things without having Garmin data of my current energy level and going missing if my watch dies during an ultra or having an accident without the incident detection.
I deserve the new forerunner because I ran a 50km mountain trail at the weekend and I had to record it in 3 parts because my watch died, recharged it at a CP, died again and just recorded on my phone! 🤦🏻‍♀️🤞🏻
I deserve the garmin fr955 because I’m so tired of getting lost on the mountain every time I try to go for an adventurous run. Weeeell and also because this year I’ve been training triathlon, and in a week I have my first triathlon… so I could use that help hahahahajah
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because my current watch runs out of battery life while im still running and out hiking in the beautiful mountains of Wellington New Zealand. Plus I love you Garmin Im your biggest fan!!! If I had Millions of dollars Ill split it between kids hospital and Garmin
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because i crashed into a deer with my road bike and my FR945 are scratched. 🦌
I DESERVE THE GARMIN FR955 BECAUSE…. having one would give me extra justification for getting out on the bike/on a run when I need that extra excuse! Plus. Think of all the data it would give me!
I deserve the new Garmin Freerunner 955 because like me, me current one is old and clapped out and needs an update. I record my bike rides on my Garmin Edge Explore but walks: forget it. Anyone would think I spent the days in between rides doing nothing!
I deseve this new Garmin watch as I'm a UFFF yes I'm an un fit fat fella. And to make it even worst I'm 56🙄 hey but here's hoping that this little beauty will help me get of my ass and monitor my HR whilst I try and slog a few Ks out on my bike or pound the roads ( in the dark😂). So if you had any conscience  you'd help! 
I deserve the brand new Garmin Forerunner 955, because I’m  financial ruined by our totalitarian government, by their so called COVID restrictions. They entirely deleted all my plans and opportunities for starting my dream in beginning of 2020.  I’m a runner, a biker and a swimmer who really needs a great watch to  accompany me with my outdoor training . Have a nice day and regards, Bertwin
Very good video. When cycling is there an option to switch between Ebike and normal bike
Does the watch display elevation gain for bike rides?
If i recorded my ride using bike comp (not garmin) which sync with my strava, will it be sync to garmin apps through strava?
You did an outstanding job on presenting the various options and capabilities of the Garmin units.  I am in my late 60s…healthy, fit and active.  I’ve always loved bicycling…and in retirement, I’ve developed an interest in “gravel tour bikepacking”.  As I spent two careers in challenging (and often fraught with danger) professions (military and federal law enforcement), I have no wish to entertain unnecessary danger in my recreation.  I have had too many close calls with vehicles on the road (too many damned drivers staring at screens, I would guess!  Funny, as how this video is presenting a “screen” to bicyclists).  Anyway, my question, I know that you can “front load” a route in some devices…what I’m looking for is a bike computer that can depict “off pavement” routing. So, let’s say, I want to ride my bike across Massachusetts, Outskirts of Boston to Stockbridge…I want to avoid paved roads to greatest extent possible.  Do I have to know those gravel roads, rail trails, twin track roads?  Or is there a device that I front load my parameters, and input origin and destination?  Again, you did a great job of explaining….I’m just looking for greater detail how a particular unit will perform.  Thanks again!  Bravo-Zulu, very well done!
Awesome quick wit, well explained, after a few reviews, pretty much convinced the XT is the way to roll on my adventure bike.
Hi Tim, just happened across this video. I'm with you on the phone in the pocket and dedicated GPS on the bike. Have a garmin Montana which I've had for around 3yrs now that has served me well. Looking to upgrade to the Zumo XT for the bigger screen ( got old ) and this review has sold it for me. Love your outlook and humour now liked and subscribed to your channel 👍
Just bought a Zumo XT for my KTM. Also subscribed to My Ride basic whilst waiting to have it fitted to the bike. Your review has convinced me that I've done the right thing. Thanks...
Great Video. I use my phone as primary but on trips I also take the Zumo XT. I'm in the US and traveling through the mountains, you will loose cell signal. We nearly ran out of gas and had trouble finding a gas station. After that, I purchased the Zumo as a backup. I will use it to import map files for pre-planned routes but I really don't use it to it's full potential. Thank you for the reminder of it's other features. Weather is a big one.
I also have/use a Garmin XT and love it!  I know, old tech compared to a modern smartphone, but the reasons you mention are all relevant and real.  I live in the Southwest of the US, and in the summer months, temperatures can be quite warm (sometimes over 40C) and I have experienced the dreaded overheating scenario with my phone, which became quite inconvenient when riding somewhere I had never been before.  Also, another “feature” of a smartphone is to automatically dim/darken the screen in certain scenarios - also happens (always) at the most inappropriate times, at least for me and my phone.  I will always have a dedicated GPS unit on my bike designed to handle the environment and activity of riding a motorbike…
Interesting review, thank you Tim. I have experience of using older Garmins on bikes and recognise that speed was definitely an issue; if you deviated from the route it expected you to take, you could be faced with further route decisions before it had caught up... My preferred navi solution on my bike for a couple of years has been a Beeline - I love the simplicity (and having my phone still in my pocket) but recognise the limitations of the system and that it is not for everyone, and not a solution if you want "proper" mapping. I am in the process now of setting up my old phone as a satnav on my bike (yes, with Quadlock) and will be interested in how that works - main driver for that is to be able to use the RallyMoto roadbook app on my bike, which needs a phone to work, but I will also undoubtedly use "normal" navi apps as well when I want a change from my Beeline, which sits alongside the phone on a Givi accessory bar.
I found when driving LGV's or delivery vans that I used my dedicated satnav for main guidance but used my phone to get postcodes for cafes, petrol stations etc. Do the same on my bike so best of both worlds.
Thank you for the review. It was very helpful, and it wasn't a boring topic at all. I purchased a Zumo XT today to mount onto my bike for the same reasons you did. It's too bad you didn't show the Topo Map and Bird's View that was in the product description. Those are features I'm really looking forward to checking out.
I’ve used Tom Tom, Garmin and Phone apps. For a road bike I think the Sat Nav is the easiest option. Do note that a Mount to lock the Garmin on the bike or to use on multiple bikes will cost just as much as Quad Lock. I ride road and trails so a phone gives me apps for both styles of riding and allows me use the app/map that’s best for the country I’m in. Overall for mixed riding and multiple bikes I think the phone wins by a small margin.
I've had many Zumos over the years, 660, 595LM, XT and now the XT2.  I've used them on the bike and the car.  Wouldn't be without one.
great info there and can't go without mentioning the bike. It looks awesome!!
Hi, I used a Garmin 660 on my previous bike a Triumph 955i for quite while. I  covered parts of France and Spain (Picos.) Initially it struggled with the Mac but I eventually managed to get it work ok with Basecamp using an ordinary 3 button mouse ( didn't like track pad and Mac Magic Mouse.)  I created several routes on the Mac and transferred them to the old Garmin 660 with out any problem although some of the routes were a bit quirky sometimes routing down an off slip road on a motorway and then back up the on slip road. The maps are def out of date now but I still occasionally use locally if  in my wife's older car that does not have a sat nav. Great video thnx.
I have the identical setup and find it great within its limitations. I also purchased the Touratech locking dock which allows me to leave it on the bike when its in view without some light fingered so and so making it disappear. Everyone I know whose had a quad lock has had issues from them disintegrating or disengaging......Hmmmm
Hi Tim I'm the same I don't like my phone on my bike ... you have just convinced me to buy the zumo xt ...!! Cheers 😊
Just stumbled on your channel. You’re freaking hilarious. I just had the rear camera on my iPhone replaced after 40 miles of riding with it on the handlebars of my Himalayan. Now that wasn’t vibration isolated, on the other hand, I rode for 16,000 miles on the same bike and the same mount with my Motorola G6 and it didn’t have any camera problems. Now to be fair the one flaw in that phone is it couldn’t really make a phone call. Life’s about give-and-take I guess.
I'm doing a lot of research into getting a Sat Nav for my own bike. Biggest worries are battery life and of plugged in to the bike if it will kill it as I want to get a bike/dash cam too. I have see a YouTube creater put the phone under a tap and it no longer responded or changed screens because you can't lock it. The speaker and suction cup are for use while in a car or hiking as you can change the travel mode.
Thanks for the video, I've been debating on gettng one of these, I ride my bike so I can forget about my phone lol I prefer it in the tank bag hidden away.....I think I might invest in the XT....sláinte!
I really want one of these, and if I still had an adventure bike would get one in an instant. I now have an R nineT though and can't find a way to mount one without it looking ridiculous. Great review
I picked up my first bike yesterday from the shop. It was a 65km trip back home and it took me 4 hours because I kept getting lost - my 65km had become 122km. I had tried memorizing the map before leaving but had to find a petrol station which threw my mental map out of kilt. Had to keep stopping to look at the phone as it was very difficult while trying to ride (and probably illegal). Verdict - need a GPS - and was looking at this one. Very timely review, thanks.  P.s. Can't believe the size of that monitor on the KTM - it's huge! Shame you they don't partner up with Garmin to offer gps functionality on that big screen.
I ‘ve never considered being distracted by music a benefit to safe riding nor to enjoyment of the bike or the journey.  I keep my phone for calls and photos and that’s it.  I prefer a dedicated satnav for touring.  Bmw navigator allows curvey route alternatives, multiple way points and the ability to skip any.  Waterproof, less to lose if damaged and just perfect for the job.
I'm still using my older phone for my sat nav, so vibration not a problem, I divert my good phone that I keep in my pocket to the old phone, and I can also see who is calling me when I'm riding and can also text/phone etc from the old phone on the bike in front of me.
Also, I can charge my phone from the USB charger and swap it from bike to bike. The only downfall I would say is the screen is not as bright as a sat nav. Many Thanks
Thanks for that mate . Great review.  You can get a Tourtech lockable mount to . How do you hard wire it to your bike ?
I use a Garmin car sat nav, they're a third of the price of a specific bike sat nav and does the same job.
First-love that bike. I’m riding a 2018 1290s.  Currently I have the 396. Thinking of upgrading to the  XT. Do you think the extra real estate is worth the upgrade?
I'm curious why you don't use the app with your KTM TFT that connects your phone to the display. I have the Norden 901 Expedition which came with the Husqvarna Connect app. My phone stays in my pocket connected via bluetooth to my bike. I can navigate maps, music, pretty much everything via the control buttons on the left side of the handlebar (the same buttons that control ride settings, etc.).
Hi there, I’m new to Bike in and I have Kawasaki versus 1000 GT Would you recommend this satnav are the newest one XT2
lets be honest...the youngins whod probly mostly never get caught dead on an adventure bike... the trend is definitely changing though.  riders after 35-40 start to have close up vision problems.. when on trips, i prefer to have a dedicated larger screen for nav, and trying to fumble with a tiny screen with gloves on.. for me there is no comparison, they are different tools..and one should never replace the other...great vid.
There are many fantastic riding spots on the East Coast of the United States where cellular reception doesn't exist. In the middle of the country, it's the same story. I'm in the Philippines right now and can confirm there are fairly large swaths of land where phones don't work. We're a very long time from where not having a GPS on an adventure bike makes sense.
I was using a phone on the bike until I got stuck in a downpour at night in the middle of nowhere. The phone started screaming at me that it’s detecting water(no s***). Had a beeline on the bike. Couldn’t get it set up in the dark and in the rain. So I got pi***ed off. Bought a zumo xt next day. Phones are great-yes! Most of ‘em don’t like water though!
Completely agree with you, plus the smart phone's GPS relies on network connectivity most of the times and can not precisely tell where you are in some off road situation or mountains. Also the phone fails to detect your direction if you are not moving but dedicated GPS is spot on all the time. It happened so many times that google maps told me to go forward when I was static and then tell me to turn around because it detected the wrong direction while stopped.
After my second Garmin Edge 520 died unexpectedly I decided to try something different - the Wahoo ELEMNT Bolt instead of the Garmin 530. Boy! I'm glad I did. https://www.youtube.com/post/UgkxXZCtB-wGdHVTBSz8RswePK5vllHNi06N The display on the Wahoo Bolt is much easier to read. I like the configuration of the display more (up to 7 items visible on page 1 without scrolling and the first item chosen is larger characters than the next 3 rows that have pairs of items (still very readable). I also like the configurable item selections. The Bolt synced with my Garmin ANT+ Speed sensors on both bikes easily so no additional investment was required there. While the rated battery life is a couple hours less than the Garmin 520/530, I easily get a weeks worth of 1+ hour rides before recharging (and it's never really low on charge). At the end of a ride syncing to the Wahoo app, Strava, and Apple Health app is painless.
Honestly I don’t get why all the mounting options for smartphones (except RAM) require a compatible phone case, I don’t wanna have a bad phone case all day because I use my phone for navigation on my bike… also my phones camera was destroyed by my bikes vibrations once. Im now also a proud owner of a garmin GPS…
New Iphone is around $1000....I just found a new/used Garmin Montana 750i for $375 on facebook...Sold the XT...it's awful. Purely awful. My big issue with it is the complicated way to get a track into it...then once you've rubbed your tummy, patted your head and hopped on one leg and you have the track in there...all your carefully selected waypoint icons are now...flags...nameless flags...because the xt also doesn't have icon labels. The only thing it does will is picking a curvy road from point a to point b....which...if you're using a gps on a bike, you've likely created a track you want to ride in some other software. Dont buy an Garmin XT...use a Montana 680 or 700 series on a bike if using tracks. Keep your phone safe in your pocket.
Forget using a mobile in the South of Europe in summer, it's too hot for it, it will shut down. They cannot be used in rain , and iPhones are not built to take the vibrations on a motorbike. Good old satnavs will do the job!
Phones should always be on the rider. What if you get separated from the bike in a accident and can't get to it?
Hi Tim - thanks, helpful review. I've got turn by turn satnav on the bike dash supplied from my mobile on Bluetooth, running the BMW Connected app  (so yes, phone is safe in my pocket). It works well and has got me places I would never have found without it and like the XT there is a slider for choosing the degree of winding routes. Downside though (Beeline / Triumph would be the same) is no displayed map - which is making me consider a dedicated satnav. One thing though - and I hope this can be taken the right way - enjoy your content, including general irreverence but please drop the porn jokes. Not helpful and likely to alienate any lady bikers out there.
Is silly to say the least to use a phone as a GPS on a bike, they small, not have the color or brightness & generally rely on data plus get damaged as. They for the pocket or panniers etc.
I wonder what you think of the Ottocast CarPlay Lite C5 in comparison to the Zumo XT. I have and love my XT, but now that there's a pocket Android Auto/CarPlay for bikes all of that product's videos are making like a Zumo XT is a relic of a bygone era, to be lamented and forgotten for the rest of time, to the point that they make up complete bullshit lies about what the Zumo XT can and can't do.
A GPS has a more reliable signal than a phone. The GPS gets its signal from a satellite whereas the phone depends upon “line of sight” to a cell tower. Yes, the GPS can temporarily lose it’s signal if blocked by a mountain or tunnel, but generally it’s stronger and more accessible than a cell signal.
I hope Garmin won’t keep focusing on the appearance other than firmware, function and bug fixes. From years of fenix users to epix, the upgrade is significant and it’s making sense for better screen with higher resolution. From epix2 to marq, it misses the fundamental genie of Garmin watch, we want to use Garmin when we are doing activities and we want to monitor it. Marq vs epix is like lexus vs toyota. If I make enough money, probably I would pay extra for the look. However, 2k invest on relatively short life span watch seems not a good investment to me. I would spend that on bike hiking gear instead. 😀
Seems nice, but I just bought the standard Quatix 7 (no AMOLED) - because - I mount my watch on my kayak (hard to see the info on the watch while flailing around with my arms). Problem with AMOLED is that you can’t turn of the brightness dimming down. No biggie when the watch sits on your arm, but if it’s mounted to a bike or a kayak etc. it’s more or less useless and unreadable during workout since it’s “sleeping”. Was a bit worried that the fancy AMOLED screens would make Garmin trash the older MIP type screen and went for the best MIP watch I could afford. AMOLED looks amazing though, when the screen is on.
Crazy watches costing as much as low end tri bike
Smart watch companies are losing the plot with pricing but have nothing on bike manufacturers.
Just got a brand new 945 from Prime Day for $350. I'm deciding between it and the Instinct Solar, which I got for cheap as well, since as someone who doesn't train seriously but still bikes a ton I'm not sure I'll make use of all the 945's features
Just got mine. Is there a way to see swim, bike, run total distance of the week on the watch face?
Hey Chriss, thks for the useful tutorials, I want to know which brand and models (preferably 1-3 years old ones) of long-lasting solar power watches you recommend for using in the middle of oceans or mountains (in emergency situations) without internet access and only a satellite connection or other map kinds which suits better in ruff conditions? It should work independently of mobile phones. I had Casio H1000 which I wasn't so proud of. Another question is, should we pay for downloading or updating any kind of Garmin maps for smart watches? Thanks in advance, dude!
I know I'm kind of late to the party, but I wanted to ask is it possible to record the track you were going? I'm planning on using this watch for mountainbiking, and since I know the trail I want to shred, I only want to record where I go. Is this possible with the Instinct?
Great review! I'm looking for a watch for road biking, mountain biking and backpacking. Is this what you would recommend for these activities?
Wish they would bring that display and solar charging to their bike computers.
This seems like a good choice for mountaineering because of the ABC features and long battery life, especially at the price point. Would you recommend it for that, or are there better choices?
thanks for the great review. Just cant decide on the color. What would you pic for hiking, mountainbiking, jogging but also every day wearing....tactical green or this dark grey?
So... with the new HR sensor, would you use it for cycling?  I won't wear chest straps and my original Scosche Rhythm is starting to be really sketchy with it's ratings.  Thought about hunting down the new Rhythm, but I don't have a smartwatch and have some interest... also could use for super long rides and/or cx to ditch the head unit.  FYI, with my main bike, I have a power meter, so I'd need my head unit to see that data, I totally understand that, just looking to ditch the HR strap for this as a main purpose.
Forerunner 245 vs instinct solar? What ya'll think? I run and bike mostly and do bikepacking! Thanks!
is garmin instinct is compatible with bike speed and cadance sensors ?
I'm very new to this...will these download and display popular mountain bike trails? and if so, is it pretty accurate?
Been using this for a month now and been out mountain biking but its heart beat reading when engaged with activity seems way off a lot of times. I’ve tried tightening the strap around the wrist as well as wiping off the sensors but I have this problem every time I ride. Does anyone experience similar issues?
I just got a instinct solar on sale for $300. I love it. It's awesome. However! Doesn't anyone else think that $400 for a digital watch or worse $900 for a Fenix Pro is fucking crazy??!!! Seriously, I am not a poor person. I make a good living. The fact that the Fenix Pro Solar costs almost as much a  set of carbon wheels for my bike is INSANE!!!!
So... when are we going to get solar in the Edge lineup of bike computers?? Seriously, my 520 has garbage battery life and it's facing the sun all day when riding!
The main thing to know is that the GPS won't work in a wooded or even semi-wooded area. So if you live or plan on hiking around trees. Forget about using the GPS function. My watch won't even update the time after daylight savings because I have a few redwood trees close by. So much for being an extreme outdoor adventure watch. Unless you plan on hiking in the desert or on a treeless mountain top, forget about trying to use the GPS.
Which one did you recomend  for weight training and mountain bike???
1:23 which bike is that?
Thanks, very informative video! Regarding "the bad side" (8:08) to strapping the watch on the bike, i.e., not getting heart rate, there's a solution: wear a chest strap HR monitor. It can report to the watch.
Not sure if you are aware... Garmin offers bike handle bar mounts for some of their watches... not sure which models though...
Is a really good watch! Battery rated for 4 days but i used it for almost 7 days w out recharging but it got some cons like i wish it focus on counting steps cause when i dont bike thats what i focus on. Samsung does this count steps perfectly
To your comment about attaching the watch to your bike’s handlebars but having to do without heart rate monitoring. You could wear a chest strap and monitor you HR that way, correct? Or were you saying that if the user is in the turn by turn map mode that they just wouldn’t be able to see their HR? Thanks, in advance.
2) when I ride my bike I have several connected devices... I have a power meter,  my headset for music, my phone , and HR monitor and Garmin radar ( Varia ) . Ever since I added the Varia I can no longer listen to music and have the Radar connected at the same time.   This is annoying as hell considering i paid 1K for this gadget. This is clearly a known issue form garmin since this is a well documented issue that lots of folks are reporting.. unfortunately there is no fix to be found. 
Will this link up to Polar cadence and speed sensors on my racing bike?
So you pay £740 and don’t even get the DLC coating on the bezel or Sapphire glass which you get on the cheaper model? No thanks. And the battery life on the 6S is already good enough for 95% of people, unless you’re planning an expedition to Everest and really need that extra 1% per hour (in which case you would probably have a USB power bank with you anyway). I have the 6S Sapphire and did a 125 mile bike ride once and still had 50% battery left...
Thanks for your great review, I just bought it two days ago and I have gone on a run yesterday and on a bike ride today and it works very well. I had an older forerunner 410 for doing both sports and a separate smart watch and wanted to get something better without spending much. I would have loved to hear how much you paid for it. I paid $65 USD for it, and I am finding it an excellent value for money, it is my only watch now. I downloaded a custom screen and it is just perfect for me.  I have the chest strap already, so I normally use it for both sports. I am glad to hear that the heart rate sensors with the watch are not very accurate. The sleep tracker seems to work well too. I have the smart notifications on, and it works quite well, what I don't find is an easy way of deleting them all at once without having to go clearing one by one.  If someone knows, please let me know.
So if i am going to run maybe a 5k every other day and bike also would you recommend getting this watch?
I race in Duathlons (run, bike, run).  I need a watch that will record my first run, then record my second run separately.  Most importantly, I don't want to be fussing around with saving the first run and getting the watch ready to record the second run.  Does anybody know how I can accomplish these recordings with relative ease?
Dude, you are absolutely the BEST reviewer in the world and I hope you actually make money from all this hard work!  I am not a sports buff by any means, although I've done a few adventure races, climbed Mt. Kilimanjaro, done Santiago de Compostela's Way by bike, etc. but all for leisure ... I have always been a fan of Suunto and I not only love watching your reviews but also have recommended them to a lot of friends whoa are more "athletes" than me. THANK YOU and keep up the outstanding work!!
The expedition feature will be great for mountaineering! For an example, a permit for Aconcagua lasts three weeks (and I will probably spend two weeks acclimatizing) so not having to bring an additional charger is super convenient.
Expedition mode looks awesome, I think people do actually use it. Thats what I need for when I do a 3 week trip into the mountains, my battery pack won't last that long
Hey DC rainmaker. I've been watching and reading all your reviews about fenix 6 suunto 9 polar grit x (and coros) . They all are good watches. But can't see which one would be the most accurate in terms of purely GPS and data (specially for mountains activities and running) if we don't look at the rest they are offering. Any advise ? Thanks for your work
Hey, thanks for great videos. I currently use a Wahoo Element when mountainbiking and an Apple Watch for everyday use for overall health and fitness. But, I have started looking at a Garmin Instinct or Garmin Fenix 6x to replace my wahoo and use as a training watch. Whats the pros and cons compared to my bike computer and Apple Watch? Cant decide which way to go… I really love my apple watch but miss some fitness functions.
Great review! Im looking at one n what do you suggest for me? Im a mountain biker walker n hiker? 
Hey thanks for the content. Will like to get your opinion on having the Fenix 6x as a bike computer. Mounting it on the bike, what do you think about that for a starter? 
Expedition mode might just be useful for first time solo hikers who are kinda afraid they'll lose their way in the forest/mountains
Dc, I am an enduro dirt bike ride. What is the best watch for me? I do like lap timing, HR, gps to track etc.. what do you. Recommend?
all I want is a bike version of the Overlander
11:40 how do you get this bike widget
Lol Nacho Dispenser feature would be craaaazy. What mountains are those?
I’m a little disappointed: I thought the 6 came with LTE or Satellite emergency system to call the rescue and the ECG one dérivation and not the upgrade to use the crédit card in high mountain ore the 32gb to listen music when you do a marathon...😒
If you like this video you'll love our new podcast! We've extended our year-end chats to a regular, on-going podcast where we chat about all things sports tech including smartwatches, sportswatches, bike computers, bike trainers, trainer apps, and anything sports tech related. 👉 https://www.youtube.com/@thefitfile
I'm in my 50s.  I'm obese.  I have type II diabetes and high blood pressure.  If I get Covid-19,  I have a very high chance of getting severe complications.  I started intermittent fasting. I bought a new exercise bike in June. I bought a Garmin Vivosmart 4 in July to hold myself accountable to my fitness goals.  I started walking.   I'm down almost 45kgs so far.  Coronavirus gave me the impetus to change and that motivated me to buy my fitness watch.
Had a Casio G-Shock watch for about 12 years. Looks similar to the watch in the show - as do all G-Shocks. 200m water resistant. Solar power charges a capacitor, not a battery - had to have mine changed recently. Also satellite set time. It's great but it's not smart. I need to monitor heart rate following massive familial hyper cholesterol based heart attack in April. Want to get back on bike, running, swimming, with a bit of gym. Most important is controlling immediate transition from main effort to extended cool down for steady heart rate reduction to rest. Looking forward to their recommendations within my budget.
What watch (or watches) would you suggest for me? I use an iPhone, I'm a trail hiker, road cyclist, and occasional runner and referee, but also train indoors circuit & weight training, treadmill runs, indoor bike training (zwift) on a Wahoo Kickr Snap, and I have a wahoo element with Tickr HR.
Following massive heart attack in April, I have a Polar HR10 heart rate strap so I don't have to rely on heart rate monitoring on a watch but could have a watch display the HR10 data - if possible. I can install my Samsung J5 phone on my bike handlebars - it has GPS, of course, and can display my Polar HR10 data, but it's not water resistant. So heart rate and GPS would be useful but not essential for watch if watch can display the heart rate and phone data with the phone in a waterproof bag and not visible. Want to get back to riding, running, swimming. Any suggestions please? Budget preferably maximum of £200 / $266
Nice video,i do have question,what smart watch do recommend for bike only activity as that's main thing i like use and good heart monitor but i like maps on it to,and as in budget range,...so great videos
for a value phone, is the garmin 235 too old tech? Looming to use primarily for occasional road bike use and gym
Des - Looking to replace an old Forerunner 220.  I am trying to stay in the $250 range.  I was looking at the Garmin 245, maybe 645 on sale, or the Coros Pace.  Mostly trail running, then mtn bike and road bike secondary.  Any thoughts between those 3 or should I look at others?  Just down I25 from you in Co Spgs :)
If you like this video you'll love our new podcast! We've extended our year-end chats to a regular, on-going podcast where we chat about all things sports tech including smartwatches, sportswatches, bike computers, bike trainers, trainer apps, and anything sports tech related. 👉 https://www.youtube.com/@thefitfile
Nice suit, but I bet you have your bike shorts on :)
Gotta say, I like the bike alarm feature. What a good idea.
Dude!!  This is the Edge I've been waiting for.  I've been waiting and looking for a bike computer that I could use seamlessly between road and MTB (I loooooove the mountain bike features that you highlighted :) ).  Thanks for the review! Sweet job as always.
I think a lot of people won’t realize how ground breaking this 530 is for mountain bikers. Thankfully, your written review does and it’s spot on. My favorite part was, “Up till now, the most attention that Garmin has placed on mountain biking has simply been to add a generic ‘Mountain Bike’ profile, and offer you the ability to purchase a colored rubber condom for your Edge device, presumably to try and protect it when you smashed your bike into a rock face. Feature-wise though, there’s been nothing.”
great review, I'm looking at upgrading from a 520 - really helpful thanks..for bike riding I find that I can't get a touch screen (like on the 830) to work properly cos my hands get too sweaty, so buttons like on the 530 is much better.
Alarms.. my See Sense Icon Plus front and rear bike lights (400/250 lumens) have alerts via bluetooth to iOS app. Been using this function along w my ziplok zlok zip ties for as you say, coffee shops etc.
So... is it worth to buy it... or with the FR245 is enough for a amateur biker?
Really helpful review! As a fellow roadbiker in the netherlands, I'm torn between this and the Wahoo BOLT v2. What do you personally use here?
I wrap my 1030's wrist strap over the handlebars to keep it on the bike if disaster strikes. You know what would be great? A review of screen protectors and after-market cases for fitness computers if you haven't done one already. Thanks for the vids!
So would this be good for my World Tour by Bike next year? Or is the 520plus better?
Is speed displayed even if a cadence sensor is not fitted on the bike?
just a new to bike computer. does the mapping rely on your phones data. or it has its own connection that does the route. for some reason i dont bring my phone during trail, would it still be working even if i dont have my phone with me ?
Hi, thanks for the report. A query... can I use it with Wahoo Kickr Smart Trainer,?. My Element's GPS has stop working , I tried to recover it in many different ways but it looks like it is no repairable and I am thinking of buying a new bike computer.. Could you please let me know if that Garmin has same feature to work indoor and creates workout with the Kickr one.  Thanks a lot
Is there an optional key locking mount too? So even if they try to take your bike, they can't take the head unit as a consolation prize?
love the video.  Im looking to buy my first bike. Is there a bike that is good for dirt as well as pavement that you can recommend that isn't real expensive ?
Great review as always. I need your help, I’m new into cycling and in a market for a bike computer. Which one would you recommend, either 530 @ 830 and why? Really appreciate if you reply, thanks a lot!
Can the Edge 530 read power data from my Wahoo Kickr while the Kickr is paired to a PC running Zwift.   And how the hell did riding a bike get this complicated :-)
The mountain bike navigation on my Edge 520 Plus is very disappointing. Unit is too slow to keep up on twisty trails with many trail intersections. Should I expect the 530 to be markedly better?
Good review as always with every review. This device does a lot of stuff I don't really think I would use features like the drink metrics, really what idiot needs to know that sort of stuff? I am here to try and determine what Garmin unit I will be go for next. I bought the Edge Explore and since installing Dura-Ace Di2 on my bike I found it doesn't play well with Di2. Can't Garmin do an update to get it to do that simple little thing? Is that to much more to ask from that unit? I guess I will have to spend hundreds dollars more just so I can do that and still have the same features which I like in the Explore unit. Most of the upper more expensive Garmins have more training features than I would find usable since I don't need to train at my age.
If I already own a Garmin fenix 6x, apart from larger screen, why do I need a bike computer, when I can use the garmin fenix 6x?
this may sound basic, but why can't Garmin make a phone app that does all what the Edge dose? I feel these bike computers should be redundant. Unless there is an app out there that does most of the Edge does already. If so please let me know
I noticed that you can buy rugged waterproof Android phones for $100. Are there any Android apps that are actually as good as a Garmin bike computer like this?
Found this channel and appreciate the content as I am getting back into bike touring.  I am planning a cross country ride(USA) and am considering the 530 or the 520 Plus.  It's $150 price difference.
Bike alarm is misleading to leave the garmin mounted on the bike while going into a cafe. Somebody can grab the garmin instead of the bike. :-)
I still don’t get why anyone would buy a standalone bike computer at all - multi sport watches are way more useful in terms of what 80% of the planets sports people need. It’s literally like buying a point and shoot camera when you have a great camera in your mobile phone. Moving maps equates to having a mechanical shutter - yup sounds great? No one uses it, touch screen display? Yup, overkill, an up and down button works just fine and more tactile too. You can’t go for a run with a stand-alone, swim, dive, activity counting, use as a normal work/notification wrist top device etc etc 
hi, my name is Kiko and I am writing from iGPSPORT contacting you for GPS BIKE REVIEW. Currently, we have a new product. You would be interested in that?
Will an activity on an Edge show up via Garmin connect on the Fenix? Training status for example? If I hike and the ride my bike will the fenix know that I had more training/ stress?
Does it broadcast hr to alle bike computers which support ant+ or does it only broadcast to Garmin computers?
Hi, is it possible to se what speed you are travelling at, when cycling on a bike?
Also, he goes out in his bike at night, so I was wondering if the screen could be kept with the backlight on without having to press the button so he can constantly look at the watch without the hassle of turning on the backlight?
I am taking pleasure to run and when I do a little better, now it is very cold in my land, I want to go out with the bike ... I have been looking at your blog to see if I decide on the 5 sapphire fenix but I get many doubts. ..
Nice roadbike t-shirt. What is it?
Any idea of the maximum battery life when using it on the bike like this with that backlight on?
Do you have to be in a bike mode (starting activity) for it to alert you?  I use my edge to track data but would like my watch (not being used for activity tracking)to alert me if a car comes nearby
Great review.  Just wondering, does the Varia radar pick up motorbikes or just cars/trucks?
Hi, what is the name of the bike watch holder? Where did you get it from?
Thank you for these Fenix 5 videos... so how about with a 5x - a sky dive to a mountain, snowboard, road cycle, run to a beach and a swim!
I like to request a overview of a training on a bike paired to the ant+ meters (like cadence, watts / other bike dynamics)
Hi Ray, thanks for this video ;) Would it be possible to have a review of the mapping options for the 5X (my main point is, can I enter an address to bike/run to like the edge 820?). Thanks again, and enjoy Spain
Will this pair to a stages indoor bike?
Do the maps work with trail maps too? For hiking, mountaineering, trail running etc..?
Any idea of the maximum battery life when using it on the bike like this with that backlight on?
Do you have to be in a bike mode (starting activity) for it to alert you?  I use my edge to track data but would like my watch (not being used for activity tracking)to alert me if a car comes nearby
Great review.  Just wondering, does the Varia radar pick up motorbikes or just cars/trucks?
Hi, what is the name of the bike watch holder? Where did you get it from?