This has to be the most complete Ultra review out there who actually does the sports as well as understanding the tech, which most couch tech’s reviewers fall short.
The Ultra 2 is probably not worth the upgrade from an Ultra 1, but it's definitely a sweeter deal for people who were interested in the Ultra 1 and were holding out.
Absolute star for doing this in-depth! Thanks for the effort, commitment and going to depth! Excited to be using an ultra for the first time tomorrow! :)
Thank you for exercising like a madman to actually show us the accuracy of so many of these features as they're being added to Apple Watch! Big up!
Love how thorough & informative you are with what you presented. You got a new sub! I desperately want the AW Ultra 2, but I’m super disappointed they don’t offer it in black/space grey. If they did I would have pre-ordered. Fingers crossed they add some colour options ASAP.
I ordered it it arrives tomorrow, but I increasingly think that an aftermarket version 1 would be enough- thanks for the great work as usual!
Hi DC, thank you as always for a very well made informative video. I have been a long term garmin user and currently use the 965 for tracking all my activities such as - strength training, yoga, running, cycling. Along with my recovery metrics such as sleep, body battery, HRV, training readiness. These recovery metrics i beleive are very important. From my understanding the Apple watch doesnt have these metrics, even though its heart rate tracking is superior to that of Garmin. Would you say having the Garmin with slightly less accurate heart rate tracking but better metrics is a good trade off ? is it possible to get recovery metrics on the apple watches? thank you.
We got the same watch with minor changes that no one asked for. The lack of significant improvement in battery life is a huge gift from Apple to Garmin, which has gained an extra year to introduce esim cards and further improvements to epix and fenix
THX for an EXCELLENT REVIEW 💪
I've been using the cycling workout app on my Ultra 1 since last year. I love the HRM and GPS accuracy, but the auto-pause feature was never great (~5 sec delay). Auto-pause is worse now with Watch OS 10. I'm getting delays of 10 seconds on average. Then it restarts with any slight movement. Not good. Apple needs to add a user selected speed (like 5 kph) to initiate auto-pause.
You are the best! Great job. As always, thx for providing useful reviews, Data and opinions. 👍
If you have neither would the 2 be the way you go or catch the 1 on sake or just go with a Garmin? I want to get one for overall fitness tracking and some outdoor activities.
Thanks man, nice to see a review that doesn't feel like an Apple ad 👏
Thx for the in-depth review.. Now I dont regret the impulse buy ( Ultra 1) vs waiting the two months for the newer version lol.  Doubt I'll ever find a need to use the double-tap feature..
Upgrading from a series 4 to Ultra 2 (arriving tomorrow). Thanks for the video. Wonder was radar support mentioned at the Wanderlust event?
Very helpful video, thank you!
Is that more vibrant colour and background theme you have in the movement rings app a new feature or also available for the Ultra 1?
Open Water Swim tracking of Ultra 1 was not reliable, sometimes it gave great data, sometimes had bad gps points and recorded extra distances. I wrote about this numerous times to Apple and also posted on Reddit, Macrumors etc. I bought a new Ultra 1 to compare and try it and had the same issue. Did you have that issue with Ultra 1? Does it seem to be fixed with Ultra 2?
Be interesting to find out if wearing gloves interferes with double-tap. Very useful for my work and cold environments. The latest IOS has solved some problems I have had on my series 7. 
I am thinking of going Ultra and then using my 7 for sleeping until the battery is done.
I have a series 6 watch. I just ordered the Ultra 2, mainly for the battery life.
Good video! i already bought two devices from your reviews!
Fantastic as always 🏴󠁧󠁢󠁥󠁮󠁧󠁿
I assume yes, but is the super fragile antenna band still identical?
The double tap is legit amazing
My Series 3 broke a few month ago, I’ve been using an old Garmin Vivo Active since then as an replacement, this will a nice update.
Excellent review
Nice video. Almost started regretting I bought series 9 instead of UW2, although don’t need them in my cycling training.
Great review. Thank you.
I would like to ask you if you use Glonass gps or gallileo to to your Garmin.
Great video, thank you! I have a question related to Strava and automatic import from Health app. Everything went well after the first workout and I can see the activity on Strava. There is just one thing and that is the device shown in Strava. It says "Apple Health" instead of Apple Watch Ultra. Is there a way how to fix that? Thank you in advance!
Amazing ! Just what I was looking for - let’s go!
Which app for the maps? so I can see where I was running.
I wanted to ask what your thoughts are about upgrading to a Garmin 965 from a series 6 or get the AWU? Garmin says that their watches are compatible with IOS.
very thorough.., well done
I currently have series 6, and have been thinking to get ultra 2. Also I have 12 pro, and I wanna upgrade to 15 pro max. I'm not sure which one to get first, I cant afford upgrading both at once.
How are the swimming capabilities for pool and open water? Im a triathlete so swimming functionality and structured workouts have me on the edge between this and say the garmin fenix
DC Rainmaker: the only person with watch tan lines on both wrists ;-) Great stuff as always, thank you!
I went from a series 3 to the ultra 2. I know it’s a major jump but I absolutely love this watch
Recently took a light step into the world of Garmin with the budget Forerunner 55 and it does MOST THINGS and does them well. Cannot see the value in the AWU when the Fenix 7 is half the price here in Australia. Screen on my Forerunner 55 the main thing that makes it feel budget - otherwise just a fraction of the price and very comfortable. 

Would consider the S9 Apple Watch but the battery life... I just can't charge each day
cycling power also came to the ultra 1 though right?
Is it possible to upload a trail course and then follow it with map and indications? Like Garmin fenix and forerunner 9xx...
super nice video, thanks!
I’m interested in the ultra 2 I use a garmin. How is the ultra for runners?
I already have a garmin enduro 2 but now I want to get the ultra and wear it on my other wrist at the same time so I can get the best of both worlds 🤭
I really hate the increasing number of features being marketed but not yet available year over year.
Excellent review, as usual. I am interested in the Bike Computer feature. Is that exclusive on the Ultra 2? Or is a iWatch OS 10 feature that will be in the Ultra 1? Thanks, JP
@DC Rainmaker - Love your content and all the time and effort you put into testing and staring the best persecutive on the review and amazing data to back it. Thank you! I do have a question to you and the community here, I was using Garmin Coach to teach me to run and be able to do a 10k ... busy summer with work and injury put me back to the beginning with months off, I am not a runner but was enjoying it. I am now looking to start a path to 10k on my apple watch ultra 2 instead, can you recommend a good learn to run app/coach for Apple Watch tracking?
So might be a long shot but do you think that Apple would make a wear profile that accommodates people who wear a watch with the face of it on the inside of their wrist? I’ve tried wearing every type of watch “normally” from my Suunto to my various Apple Watches including the Ultras and it just doesn’t feel right.
In a previous video you mentioned that with indoor cycling, distance was not shown as a metric even when paired speed and cadence sensors. Is this still the case or has it been added in?
Great video - any ideas when structured workouts will start being pushed down to the Apple Watch from Training Peaks.  I don't think this is available yet.
Can you at least use Siri offline to control audio? Play/pause/next? Limited use case, but would hope Siri can at least do that.
Body temperature also helps to verify whether or not a patient is asleep as well as which sleep stage they may be in
Great video. I would really love to see an athlete like yourself do a video on how they would use this watch as a fitness watch for different sports like running, hiking, biking, swimming, alpine touring, etc. Like, which apps are almost a requirement and how do you use them? How would you aggregate all the activities, etc. Any plans to create something like that?
with cell data ,can you use the watch to run amazon music to the apple AirPods Pros without lugging your phone around the gym?
What kind of future things will the S9 chipset be capable of?
I take it the Ultra 2 still doesn't natively broadcast Heart Rate to Garmin Edge computers then?
My son is a contractor and loves his. Wears it all day and used to use the protective screen with it. After the 3rd one broke, he didn't replace it. I'm a larger guy and I'm curious if they're as tough as they seem. I do tech appliance repair work sometimes and my hand gets into tight places with a lot of metal edges. I worry about breaking the face. Would love to hear from active people how their watches are holding up?
Why did they take the lock option out of activities, even worse they just left a blank gap ffs
So, is the maps/ navigation better on the Suunto and Garmin?
Got a Series 4, battery is not great now and have been thinking of upgrading and just taken the plunge with a Ultra 2. Apart from walking the dog, not a major outdoors (or fitness in general type), but the battery, sapphire screen (lots of micro scratches on my current one) and larger screen has won it for me. Should feel like a very nice upgrade :)

Update, had the Ultra 2 for a couple of weeks now and it’s a huge upgrade. Love it :)
Do you plan to do an updated video comparing the Apple Ultra 2 to the Garmin Epix standard and pro additions?
1) I have a feeling the ultra 2 batter will last longer than ultra 1 just due to watchos 10 and we have yet to realize it. 

2) On device siri is enough for me. I often want to speak into my phone like to start a workout and current siri is too high latency.
Outside of the fitness functions, the feature most important to me is the vibrating alarm.  I’ve gotten used to auditory alarms and will sleep through them.  I realized that vibrating alarms have existed for the deaf community.  I could never go back now.
the refreshrate of display is ltpo 1-60 or 1-120 hz ?
If the next version is going to be better with the navigation/maps does that mean the ultra and ultra 2 will get the update?
I have an series 4 and is looking for an upgrade… might jump on it
I remain curious as to what Apple will do with the Apple Watch’s low power GPS mode. If they truly do have a large chunk of the US trails mapped out, I can see them having one of the best “ultratrack” equivalent GPS modes on the market because it will leverage Apple Maps data for distance accuracy. I hope you can test this feature when we finally have a complete US map!
Great Segment.
How about heart rate measurement speed, any improvement over the original Ultra ?
Unless my ultra 1 breaks or I lose it, definitely no reason to update to the ultra 2.
They should just add some LEDs on the case for a better actual flashlight instead of relying on the screen brightness, its geared tword “outdoors” but everyone could use a flashlight on their wrist
Did you happen to check the accuracy for of finding watch via findmy?  Is it more precise than the non dual frequency GPS Apple watches?  AKA leveraging the dual frequency chips?
I am curious what software you use to compare the fit files.
This was such a comprehensive review. Thanks brother 💪🏽🤠🇺🇸
I really wish I could have my heart rate zones on the same page as my pace like Garmin watches support..
The bike computer thingy is really cool.  Does anyone know if it will work on an iPhone 12 Pro with the Ultra 2?
coming from the 7 worth it ?
Best watch ever.Nothing compares this beauty.
Can you use the double tap hand gesture to accept 3rd party MFA push notifications like Duo (push)? I would buy this in a heartbeat if I didn't have to wait for the notification and tap my watch screen to accept the Duo MFA Prompt. I log into many MFA servers daily and would love to hand double tap my MFA.
Jumped from my Apple Watch Ultra to Garmin Epix Pro

Zero regrets.
I’m ex military and do a lot of hiking in areas were cellular is limited. Between the tactix 7, and ultra 2 which have u found to have better sat ability’s? Also do you like the maps in the apple or Garmin better? Have u found any other watches that you could recommend that can hang with these two? Like fenix 7 or epix pro gen 2?
We still have not seen the full on commitment to make the watch independent from the phone. With all connections and downloads on the watch without the need for the phone.

There are plenty of people who want to leave the phone behind them and fully move to wrist displays and controls but we're not there yet.

Phones will be used as the computer where we use them for more advanced editing and watching and editing videos etc
I chose a Fenix 5x because of your review - and I shied away from apple because of the battery life - I'm not world class anything - just like to track steps, rides, and I don't run so...  Now it feels like it might be a good time to move to Ultra 2
I’m coming from the series 6 is the ultra 2 worth it for me?
Guessing the new S9 chip should allow updates a bit longer into the future than watches with the S8 chip - I like the 64 GB storage upgrade since I want to load all my music and podcasts onto the U2 - in the gym I don’t carry my iPhone with me. Glad I upgraded to the U2 from my series 7 - trade in and 3% cash back, and no sales tax made this workable for me.
I ignored the other reviews of this watch and came to you because I knew he would review it brutally
Thanks to this review, I just bought the Ultra 2 and retired my Series 6 44m 🥳
Should I get the ultra 2 or a Garmin 965? I basically run and bike
Ray I need some help from the expert.  I am currently using the Apple Watch ultra and I am a cyclist (yes i miss my Garmin) but even with the most recent updates pertaining to cycling they are still missing a major component in my opinion.  I am looking for the capability of broadcasting HR to my Garmin 1040 heat unit.  I dont believe apple does that currently, correct?  Are you aware of any 3rd party app options that offer a work around? TIA
Just bought the ultra 2 coming from Apple series 3
Still doesn’t come close to the epix 51mm
Funny, I was watching your review thinking, "Wow, the east coast trails look exactly like what I have in my backyard..." Then, latter in your review when you zoom in and out showing new new "topo" feature I realized you were at Rancho San Antonio (my backyard....)

Somehow, probably because of your username, I assume you were based and did all reviews from the east coast. Hope you enjoy the trail all the way to the top of Black mountain, there is a really nice view from there. you can see the Apple spaceship and the Googleplex!

Merci pour la review!
Thanks for these videos, keep coming back here! Was hoping for a tad of info on the Workout pushing option in OS10 (Especially from Trainingpeaks). Doesnt seem to be working as of yet. Have any info on that? Updates this year are so minor, even coming from an Series 5 im very much considering a Garmin FR965 or even an Epix.
I see the Elevation Bug on the Video, think only i have this.  i fix it with uninstall Compass App and reinstall. The next Bug is than you cant take a Waypoint on Compass ... 🙂 thx love this Videos
I would love to see your comparison between ultra 2 and epix gen 2. I am in between this choice. I love ultra 2 design and functionality but the battery life keep me away. Epix 2 has the best battery life and map that I need but thr design somehow for me looks not that stylish
I have an old Apple Watch 6 I think it is. I’m wondering if the 2 is worth it now? Or should I wait til whenever the 3 is out? I like that it has a titanium casing and other things like that like the iPhone 15 pro that I got recently
If I hadn’t broken my series 4, I would’ve never upgraded to the ultra 1. But I’m so glad that I did. The ultra 2 is not worth an upgrade for me or anyone with the first one, but when the third generation comes out, I may have to get it if it has new features.
Thanks for the review, for now I think I’ll stick with my Garmin 530 and Fenix 5X for now. Apple has a long way to go.
Also note that in order for sleep tracking you work you have to set your bed time. It will NOT TRACK SLEEP AUTOMATICALLY.  You can also manually trigger it by turning on "sleep" in the focus widget on the watch
How do you messure the watt's while ridning the bike?
Is it really worth it over the series 9 considering it’s double the price?
looking forward to your Coros Pace 3 review
nice to see you running around my neighborhood and the amsterdamse bos in Amsterdam :)
Don't know leave my AW4 for a Garmin (loosing apple fitness) or buy AW9 or an Ultra2. I mostly run and I'd like to have a precise GPS. AW9 seems good enough even in woods and city.
Still waiting for TrainingPeaks workouts integration to show up.
Man I’m thinking about getting this I have the series 6 right now 🤣
Still getting it but I’m just bummed the leaks about a black variant ended up not being true
Would you say the display based flashlight is competitive against the Fenix 7X dedicated flashlight, since it is now 3000nits?
Amsterdam. My home town 😊 Nice that you tested the watch around the world!
Thank you
My problem with apple watch for monitoring resting HR and HRV is that... data it provides is indeed consistent, but almost useless, because of the method it uses.
If I only have the iPhone 8plus ,then my apple watch ultra 1  can't update to OS 10?😢😢😢
How was the distance accuracy on treadmill 👍
Thank you for all your reviews . They are detailed and very informative. Every time i think i narrowed down a smath watch to get i find somethingni in your reviews that halts me. Damm, you.. lol. What is the best smarth watch with solar  hands down? Also, what is the best cellular smathwatch hands down?  Please answer from your perspective as your likes and dislikes are similar to my own. Thank you again
does it tell you how much of the road you own?
I use the double tap feature and the clench feature on my ultra one now……
Great detailed review. 
Why ppl don't wait for the Ultra 3 when features are yet to be available for Ultra 2 is beyond me. The Ultra should be a 2 hr cycle. Let the regular watch be yearly
Btw doesn’t the wideband iPhone location also work with iPhone 14?
Thanks for the vid! On Reddit people say that OWS sucks. You mentioned it really in a couple of seconds. This is a deal breaker for me. Perhaps you could do a dedicated video with a thorough test?
In order to activate the extra brightness on the flashlight you need to roll the dial. Then it it very obvious.
apple watch ultra supports heart rate variability? i see in your screen shot
i purchased one saturday, i hope it is worth it... i was coming from an apple watch 7
I think I’ve figured out what Apple is trying to do with the AWU - create the ultimate sports watch, but also the ultimate watch for everyone. 

I want to buy it so badly, but I don’t know if I can give up my Fenix 7X just yet..
I just got that watch for my iPhone 15 pro max I can't wait until I get it
Its a free upgrade from my Ultra 1 to Ultra 2 with my UK service provider so will get it anyway with new watch band
Excellent review - thanks. 

I have an Ultra s1 (my first smartwatch) and, in terms of its performance relative to my expectations, it's meh. I definitely won't be upgrading.

Sometimes it will give me a workout prompt (i.e. when I've started walking), sometimes not. Example : I'm walking from A to B, with a distance of around a mile. The Ultra doesn't provide a workout prompt. A few minutes later I make the return journey, B to A, using the exact same route (just reversed) and the Ultra provides a workout prompt. It's absurd. 

My biggest gripe it heart rate tracking when cycling, especially off-road. Even with the Alpine Loop band adjusted snug, but not tight (it needs to be comfortable), the Ultra picks up very few heart rate data to the point that it's effectively useless. 

The Ultra s1 was an expensive purchase and I'd describe its features and performance as "convenient" rather than "impressive".
WatchOS 10 kills the battery on my ultra. It was charged to 94% @ 12pm, and I just got home and put it on the charger @ 35%, and my usage hasn’t changed. In fact I normally track a 3 mile walk to and from work, and today I didn’t, and the battery life still sucked. With tracking my walks I would normally get home from work with around 67-72% battery remaining. Like I said, I did less on my watch today and the battery just catered since 12pm, and the graph in the battery setting reflects that. Hope Apple puts out an update to fix that. Longer battery life is one of the two main reasons why I paid so much for the ultra, which I had to save up for three months to afford. Just putting my experience out there for anyone who is contemplating updating their watch. I love the update, but the battery issue makes me wish I had waited to update.
I live in Alaska. We have winter for 9 months. The spec’s state the watch is only operational on wrist if temperatures are -4 to 130. For 800$ the watch probably doesn’t work for 4-5 months for me.
Great in-depth and detailed video. Most helpful. I have an Ultra 2 on the way. Thanks so much!! 😁👍🇦🇺
Great review, thanks! Just check pronunciation of the word "processes" though!
So is it ready to replace forerunner? How is trainingpeaks integration?
Any word on Strava recognising paired cycling power meter data from Watch workouts?
Thank for this excellent review. I really want to like the Ultra, but with the lack of longevity with the battery life, I’m still more interested in the Garmin even with its limitations compared to Ultra/other Apple Watch features.
Definitely a great upgrade/watch for me will be my first apple watch. 
But, who runs looking at their watch constantly?
Pinch been working on ultra 1
Will UW2 and new OS allow us to upload Training Peaks workouts to watch as it does with Garmin watches
I see you’re still wearing the Oura, have you an updated opinion on it?
How do you know the in-sleep portion of sleep tracking is not that accurate? What is the reference you are using? I have also been watching videos from the Quantified Scientist, and there, Apple watches are the top devices there concerning sleep tracking.
Great watch just got mine like a week ago absolutely hate how dim it gets at nite and u can’t brighten it up u barley can see the damn thing
I charge the battery every four days. I have the brightness of the screen set to about 2000 nits and the AOD always on. All health functions are on and I cycle indoors twice a day. I also use the watch with Apple car play and to read messages and emails, and occasionally if I don't have the phone at hand I make calls with it. I bought the straps from Ali Express and the screen protectors too. This year I bought the Samsung 6 and the 6 Classic, the Huawei GT4 and the Huawei 4 Pro, the Garmin Venu 3, but the Apple watch Ultra 2 is really the best watch I have tested this year..
Ray do you wear two watches daily?   I found myself in this camp and want to break out of it.   Work out with garmin and Apple for the smart features.
Never had an Apple Watch before. I just purchased this one today.
What GoPro is that in the backgroun on the box of bits?  Looks different...
How about the radiation strength apple watch gives to the users? Heard bad things about the radiation
4:27 if you asked it to CONVERT 3800metres to yards would that work? I’ve noted that how you structure the query can improve your results. Sometimes it’s not intuitive  ie hey Siri what is 45 take 30 (sometimes works) vs hey Siri what is 45 subtract 30… which usually works.
Thank you very much for this wonderful comparison and beautiful presentation. I am also someone who goes on long nature walks, and the reason I bought an Apple Watch Ultra last year was to be a good helper during my long walks, and I really enjoy using the "Watch Ultra". The second series, released this year, does not make enough of a difference to be worth skipping.
And I want to ask you a question, I think the colors shown by the camera shooting you from the front and the camera shooting the clocks on the table from above are slightly different. I'm thinking of buying the new "Blue Alpine Loop" band and I can't figure out exactly what color it is, is it a pale blue or a nice vibrant blue as the overhead camera shows?
Interesting that the GPS is doing so poorly in the city, when they make a point of the GPS improvement on the Ultra vs other Apple Watches, especially in cities.
8:33 what case/system are you using for maounting iphone to the handlebars?
I got the ultra should I upgrade
Love the watch tan lol
I've never heard someone ask for a conversion from meters to yards before
How did you pull all of that data from the watches??
11:47 I want to use the siren as a bike bell
For me it could only be useful for being a dive computer. Would love a smartwatch which is my dive computer as well
I’ve never owned an Apple Watch and my big reasoning for getting the ultra 2 is actually the double tap since my hands are either dirty or full when I’m working and I’m constantly on a podcast or music
We need timestamps please.
I really want to like my ultra 2 but I am not loving Apple health app for data.  I was hoping to stop using my whoop but their app is so much better for comparison and recovery. And, this is probably nit-picky but I love whoops auto detect workouts, it’s so accurate… I just feel like that’s all something Apple should be able to do.
I have the Ultra 1 and My 7 Nike and SE and I love It and Will get the Ultra 2 and IPhone 15 Pro Max 1TB but I will save Money!
Real question is can the Ultra 1 get the new watch face?!
I don’t understand how at launch topo maps are not across the entire US. Even national parks such as Smoky Mountain National park do not have topo lines. How did Apple drop the ball this bad on a Watch OS 10 advertised feature? The action button isn’t even programmable to bring up a map. Since we don’t have a map within the hiking activity app itself, an action button short cut would have at least made it a little easier. None of this implemented. Very half baked.
I imagine math, as a category in general, is blocked so people can't ask complex questions.  I'm not sure what the total difference would be in trying to add an algorithm to determine what is within the limit and what is not would take up in terms of power and programing space /shrugs.
Whats the battery diff bw ultra 1 and 2 ?
where do you live. some shoots in the alps and some in beach :D
I upgraded from my Ultra 1 and I think the increased brightness and better chipset were worth the upgrade
Can I install Nike Club app on the Ultra 2?
The apple watch is a very beautiful watch both aesthetically and its functionality. However, l still prefer the Garmin Epix or Fenix because in my eyes the apple watch looks more like a gadget rather than a sport instrument.
Awesome, awesome review. I was admittedly a little underwhelmed with the keynote as an AWU1 user, but you gave me hope with your “three act” analogy.

People attack Apple for their business approach but you need to sell watches year after year, and the best way to do it is to “keep them coming back for more.” I genuinely believe they have a long term plan and the end result is going to be something great. With the exception of Garmin-level battery life (for now), they have the power of LTE which is a HUGE draw for many people (myself included), as well as integration into the Apple ecosystem.

Can we also take a moment to appreciate the new modular Ultra watch face? It’s gotta be the best looking one they’ve ever released.
That gopro in the back has a huge display. Doesn’t look like the 12 or older?
You + Desfit = smart/sportwatch world domination.
Audio is distorted during phone calls.
My brand new Apple Watch Ultra 2 makes cracking sounds when I make calls with the speaker volume at Max. 

Audio is distorted only during normal or FaceTime calls. The problem does not occur when recording or playing sounds from the speakers. It's never been in the water, I haven't even washed my hands while wearing it. 

It may be a software issue because the Apple Watch Ultra (1) had the same problem and it was solved with the watchOS 9.0.1 update.
 Apple then had the following note in said update: «This update includes improvements and bug fixes for your Apple Watch Ultra.
Audio could be distorted during phone calls using speakers.» 

I hope that the problem will be solved again through a new update and that it is not a hardware problem.

 Finally I should note that until recently I had the Apple Watch Ultra (1) and it had no problems related to what I mention.
Ha, I could tell that was either Kennedy Trail or Rancho San Antonio.. then the maps gave it away as Rancho.
This is going to be my first Apple Watch. Looks likes it’s going to be overwhelming
My series 4 started freaking out Friday and calling 911 on it own, I reset it and it wouldn’t come back to life. Ordered an ultra 2 today and put my 4 on the charger to see what happened and it started working just fine.🙄
One thing never mentioned about any Smart Watches is that if you have sleeve tattoos the watch doesn’t completely work. For those with tattoos on the wrist you miss out on some of the benefits/perks of these watches.
Is it better than a Garmin Fenix 6?
15:10 I though you were going to say “garmin” 😅
Battery life is still an issue. My Coros Vertix 2 will last for a month (which is admittedly way more than I need), but I’d need an Apple Watch to last at least 4 days, hopefully a week on a single charge before I consider going back to it. 36 hours only is deal breaker.
I had to wait 17 minutes for the request to whack the Like button………..Always keep your audience waiting…..Cheers.
Really disappointed with the maps update. Was really interested in downloadable maps on the Apple Watch without the need for the iPhone.
After switching from Garmin to Apple due to the resilience promised by the Apple Watch Ultra, I encountered a disappointing issue with the heart rate sensor malfunctioning just a few months post the expiration of its standard warranty. This problem is particularly concerning given the watch's marketing as a durable device for intensive outdoor activities. I had anticipated that the Apple Watch Ultra would offer unmatched reliability for my needs, and this experience has led me to reassess my expectations from Apple. I am now reaching out to Apple Support in hopes of finding a resolution to this issue, despite the warranty period having ended, expecting that the quality and customer service associated with Apple will provide a satisfactory resolution.
Pretty neat but the price for it is next level
Don’t know how strong the sunlight is where you live but 1000nits is not enough for me. Hard to read during summer with strong sunlight, 2000 nots was very a noticeable improvement, and it could be better. 3000 nits is definitely not just a flash light feature.
Ordered Mine on the 8th. It’s shipping 7-8 days from that date 😂😂😂
Do you need an iPhone at all or can it stand alone from the jump?
Not a apple guy but great review.
🌲 first apple 🍏 watch I’ve ever had so pretty 🤩 awesome for me!!!!!
How do you people swim with the Apple Watches? The screen when wet is unusable.
Question outside of the review .. can someone help me with the location @ 12:05 - 12:16 😅?
I would have thought you would have tested the 3000 nits when scuba diving or other conditions where brightness is a factor.
I stopped buying gadgets. My coworkers think im a spoiled kid and don’t respect me wearing apple products
Thanks for your careful reviews. I am surprised that you, as all the others I checked, miss to put a big warning at the beginning of your videos: this smart watch is not usable without owning an iPhone. This is not like Garmin, Polar, etc., that have interfaces for basically any device, including laptops, android phones, etc. Despite the support of eSIM, WiFi, bluetooth, even the Ultra 2 requires you to have an iPhone to be initialised, you cannot do this by using a different mobile and not even with a Mac or an iPad. Moreover, you need to have a device supporting iOS 17, so old iPhones will not work as well. I am not sure why this issue is so underrated, probably it is given in the USA market to own an iPhone? I was shocked when I discovered this limitation, I am wondering why iWatch Ultra is even compared to other training watches when you cannot use it standalone.
As an avid cyclist, this doesn’t do anything that I need and more importantly doesn’t do the one thing I would - transmit to other devices like HR to my bike computer. I’m not sure why they did all these cycling features. People have bike computers and they’re better than using a watch or phone and watch.
I am going from nothing, I bought the ultra 2 so hope it was the right
👑GarmiN👑
Why don]t they focus more on the battery life?!!! Garmin can pull 12 days on normal mode out of their new Venu.
An actual working Siri would be a decent option.
I don't get the excitement some have for every new apple product. This watch is still well behind Garmin especially when you consider all the embedded apps Garmin has. Golf with a AW good luck. Garmin connect is data and information rich while apple health is meh.
Starting at $799 is atrocious 😮
Awesome. Read: Double Tap. Double Tap is the only new or feature difference from the first. That anyone would feel/notice/see anyway.
Thanks Ray. Hey does swimming with your Apple Watch have the same annoying effect as all of mine have done? I find the battery drain significantly worse if I swim or surf irrespective of whether I record a workout or not. It might not rate a whole video but I’d love to know your experience.  🔋 🏊🪫
Dang. Came across this randomly, thought why not take a peek?

Always have bought Casios (I have a 20 year old Casio in very good condition) as they're cheap, reliable & functional (& often with good waterproofing)

But this watch? Ok, when I win a lottery lol. But isn't technology so cool, remeber old movies where people used their watch as a phone way back in the day (1970s, 1980s)? Well, we're at that stage now, what's next, I wonder?
I am an Android User and i dont know which watch to choose. If i Was an Apple User, the choice was clear!
Glad I came across this video. It's made my decision easier I will be getting the Apple Ultra 2. Many thanks your video's are always in depth and entertaining. 👍
I’m more excited about the AppleWatch than the new iPhone.
So what is the use example for the double tap, where touching the screen is not available?
small nitpick: you mentioned that most cyclist know how to do an FTP test. In fact most cyclists don't and of those that do those test (maybe 1% of the cyclists, so 0.0.5% of the population) the do the ramp test without burn-in so just test anaerobic power and they assume that they can hold 95% of that for an hour, which is obviously not true. So it's really a shame that Apple is lagging so far behind the science on this one - they could easily track fatigue and recovery on the watch etc.
I upgraded to the ultra 2 from series 1 😂
Those who will use the features provided by the Ultra, are not here in the comments complaining. They are out moving making it happen. 

The rest of us who have nothing positive to add, can toss a algorithmic comment thanking for DC making it rain.
EXCELLENT!
I am eyeing the Ultra. But still the same measly battery? Common Apple at least give us double that what it can do battery wise. Waiting for the day where I can bring an Ultra to a marathon, do navigation, stream music and leave my phone home without fear the battery will die halfway through. Until then: thank you Garmin for having a thing worth naming battery life
I’m upgrading from a 6 to ultra 2 so I’ve skipped the 7 series size upgrade so it’s going to be a shock size wise
Waiting out of the Ultra 3. Like the regular series watches. The 3 was a bigger leap forward from the 2 than the 2 was from the 1.
I just ordered one with a iPhone 15 thank you
Psh the garmin Fenix watches last 20 days on a charge. No thanks apple.
I was desperately hoping it would be lighter weight.
My 7 series still can do all that lol maybe not a good upgrade
Now that Watch OS 10 has been released we can see that recorded cycling power data does not transfer to Strava. Strava has been prioritizing Garmin and filtering out a lot of data collected across athletic disciplines by Watch OS for years. We wish you'd put Strava on blast for this Rainmaker or figure out if Apple is partly to blame.
I wish I could use it, but it's too bulky to use with a dress shirt.
Very disappointing regarding the topographic maps. Just like their look around, I have been waiting for literal YEARS for the look around feature to be available in my city (Nashville). Look around has been out for how long? YEARS!
So I can only assume topographic maps are going to be available in 2031, just like their driver license on wallet app that they promised.
If I'm going to buy a AWU2 then I'm going to have to buy an iPhone. That's about a €2,000 outlay
got mine for free
Even though the S9 chip is not enabling much today (other than the very useful double tap), it will somewhat future proof your watch. There may be new features (or even some 3rd party apps) that will require that chip and at some point it will be necessary to upgrade to the latest WatchOS. I think it also got a storage boost as well, but maybe that was just the Series 9.
For 800, they could have incorporated solar power. Damn!!
You are not sleeping anywhere near enough. Plus it’s not good sleep. Keep an eye on that or make arrangements 😂
Love the AWU 2 but big disappointment with battery life…I think it should last minimum 7 days…now I’m using a Garmin Epix 2 and it last 16 days…maybe in the future Apple will offer decent battery life
👍👍
👍🏻
Am I the only one that actually had  physical pain of the watch ultra2, that few gram extra doesn’t seem a lot but my wrist disagree(pressure point on the back of the watch). Love the design though (but why so heavy!!) And I hated the design of the 9 (my life it is like having the same car for 50 years, the same design e-ve-ry year! Wish they had a ultra that weigh less (even we the trial loop it hurts). So ended up returning both, ultra2 to heavy causing pain, the 9 boring as hell! Already hoping for a new apple watch design for a few years now (so annoyed). So stuck with my also boring watch 5. Would love a new design after so many years.
Note: Apple Service will not repair the Apple Ultra for dust, blockage, or clogging the speaker under warranty and will have you pay for the replacement of the watch.
50km/h in zone 3?! Really? 😮
Siri is hopeless..and you don't really need a watch to "watch" you doing exercise...Any exercise will do your body good, the most important thing is you do it.
This watch is 899€ in Germany, danm💀
anyone that says 
24 by 7
when they mean 
24/7
is a bot or an alien 
🖕🤣
If you have the original Apple Watch Ultra you DON’T need to “upgrade”
After I swam, with my ultra 2 watch it stopped working I lost 1200 Singapore dollars after I go Apple and they told me to pay $700 for a repair bad experience with stupid watch The company says it is waterproof and in fact it lost due to water
Incorrect when DIVING 1000 vs 3000 is 3 times better.... 1:23 seconds in .. CORRECTION
Wait...people actually wear their Apple watches (or any watch for that matter) to bed?? Why??? 🤣🤣😂
either your watch is broken or your body measurements weren't inputed correctly because there's no way you're burning that many calories w the amount of exercises and steps you're doing. I more then double what you do and don't come close to that
Keep Ultra 1 😆
This guy really burned 1,400 calories in a day. That’s even more impressive than anything that watch can do
Why does that one watch have a line in the middle and why isn’t he acknowledging it? Lol
So what you're telling me is once again Apple makes micro improvements
It still can’t follow a GPX route. Unacceptable
Same watch Still a smart watch not a fitness watch
I would just rather stick to my ultra 1
You can do double tap on any apple watch....this is not a new feature
It tries to be a lot of thing, but end up being a Jack of all trades. I prefer my Garmin 965.
Higher nits = less battery life

Ultra > Ultra 2
For an iPhone owner, the Apple Watch is the best sports watch period. I'm not even talking about smartwatch functionality wich is obviously superb, only fitness. Swimming, running, hiking, etc. For cycling any somehow serious cyclist uses a dedicated bike device but now you can pair a power meter (I tried it with Garmin rally pedals and works pretty seamlessly), still not a replacement for a bike computer. Watch ultra easily covers a day-long activity in a normal mode and can be significantly increased by low power mode and some other tricks. How many of you Garmin fans regularly do competitive multi-days ultra marathons 😂? Maps are nice but workoutdoors is still a better solution despite being 3d party app, much better and faster than slow and choppy Garmin trail navigation (in my expert opinion 😎).  AU 2 does not have enough gimmicks to upgrade from AU 1, but obviously, the best thing you can get if it's your first Apple watch.
No blood pressure?  Shame.
magyar fordítás
short answer. no its not worth it lmao
OBSERVATION. Apple is still going after the serious athletes that use Garmin and fenix. They are not after the casual sports person like me. 
I have a couple friends who are tech influencers in Singapore. Apple gives them everything from iPhones to speakers to MacBooks for free. They refuse to give them Apple Watch ultra even if they want one. They get the series 9. One guy is even a cyclist but more of a tech guy, tv host. 
I think they are really trying to keep the Ultra in the image of actual athletes. For example a friends friend who is a power lifter fitness influencer got an Ultra. 
TBH the Ultra is no where close to Garmin in utility. Not even close. I imagine all the users are like me. Who don’t need an ultra but want the best apple offers
I prefer the Garmin Epix Pro 51 mm to the Apple Watch Ultra 2. I think the Apple Watch Ultra 2 is the best device for couch potatoes 😛
Nope if the brightness is the biggest change I’ll pass my Ultra is plenty bright for me. Not worth it.
hI!
It cant even track your sleep in a good way… nah. I pass
$800 watch....? cough cough
Don’t get it yet. 
Auto dimming in dark environment makes hard to see it.  I have returned it after 2 days of operation due to display in dark. None of YouTubers ever did proper testing. Full of 💩!
Jesus Christ love you
I purchased ultra II.  Don’t make my mistake.  These devises are non returnable for a reason!  These things are awful, not worth $5.
The value come right back to zero
not first
Anyone that runs the crown wheel towards their wrist clearly doesn’t lift.
Not worth the money. Battery life is a big disappointment but if it would be as good as garmin or wahoo it would be a great sports watch
WatchOS 10 review: it sucks
You know, when you're demonstrating the siren, it would probably be best to STFU while it's on so we can hear it.
why they had to make ultra so ugly is beyond me
Still a big fat joke this thing
If i were you I’d stick with the Garmin fenix line you always review.  Battery on this device is pathetic.
😂desfit beat u by 2hours
Battery 👎👎👎
Rehashing the bloody keynote is not a review is and waste of time
The samsung galaxy watch is better in my opinion
first time seeing you was going to sub but seen you are a cyclist i threw up
It’s pretty, but mostly useless as a sports watch.
Ultra 2, still as ugly as Ultra 1.
garbage.  If I am buying this watch, it is for the "ultra" things about it.  Navigation, outdoors, off the grid.  Not places where I must have my phone with me, have a good cellular signal, etc.  I dont think we are there yet, with these watches.  I have a regular apple watch and Fenix 7 pro and the Fenix does a great job for what I need it to do.  I dont care if the Fenix can read my text messages, make calls, etc.  I need a watch that will help me navigate in the back country, in other countries, get me back home, deal with the weather, and have a fairly long battery life, or solar.  Unfortunately, apple watch is not there yet.  I will be glad when it can do what the Garmin can do, plus more.  I will pay good money to just have one watch.
Galaxy watch 6 is far better
you talk too fast!
Got mine about a month after it launched. I may not ever climb Everest or anything like that, but it’s still a great watch and a worthy upgrade.
Got one recently and it is my first Apple Watch, it is an amazing tool watch, offers many features that help day to day life
Upgraded from a series 4.  Absolutely loving it
I do agree with you with the issue with watch os 10
Eagerly waiting for this video Aaron sir thank you ❤
I got Apple Watch 9 and I love it. It has a modular face with temp, time, date and weather.
I recently picked up an Ultra 2, upgrading from a Series 5. It's an awesome watch, thought it would be too big but the rugged look is great, and the battery lasts so much longer. Honestly annoyed I didn't upgrade sooner!
Hi I have just bought it on 9th feb and I setup, but my concern it didn't track my sleep. It was doing properly in my series 5 is there any setting I am missing out. Because I have done everything correctly in sleep schedule.
Just picked up the ultra 2. I’m very excited!!!
What watch face are you using?
I like that they changed the way the apps look there. I dont like the list because it takes ages to scroll through. I like the Grid view but in WatchOS 9 all apps were on one page and too small. Unusable without zooming in. Now better. As to the control centre, I dont really mind it being where it is now. Plus, I love being able to switch off swipe to change watch face. In version 9, it was too easy to switch it accidentally. Now it stays put.
Upgraded from a 7 to the Ultra 2 on January 11th. It’s literally never off my wrist unless I’m showering or it’s being charged, which is always at the same time!
Absolutely amazing watch 🌟
Nice. I‘m currently using Apple Watch Series 6. But I‘m thinking about changing to the series 10 this year
You tripping I love my ultra 2 I had a 4 gave it to my cousin she loves it and I love the blood oxygen feature 💯❤️
Hi Aaron, the watch link does not work!
I have the Apple Watch 7 through Verizon, but once I pay it off in the next month or so, I'm planning on getting the Apple Watch Ultra 2. Based on your videos, research, and reviews, I really like the Ultra 2.
I upgraded from the Apple Watch SE to the Ultra 2 and I absolutely love it!!!!
Ordered mine last night.
Looking to save money for the Ultra 2. I think it's an amazing watch and will complement my iphone (even though the phone is a few years old). Probably better to hold out on upgrading my iphone to a year or so.
I just got one and the most amazing thing, lasting me 3 days & nights with sleep tracking. Even then doesn't need recharge, I just do it to go back to 90%. 
The normal watch only fault was battery life.
I always love the Apple watch updates, Aaron, thanks and well done, as usual! :)
I've had every one since the first but the Ultra 2 is, indeed, the best for my use cases, whatever they may be.
What Apple Watch face u are using?
I’ve had regular 44mm Apple Watches and this one is the one I’ve used the most on a consistent basis , I would always forget to charge my Apple Watch then just throw it on the charger but I would have to go the ultra last me two days and has been a god send to tracking my stats in the gym
Thanks for sharing. I still enjoy my Series 7. Blessings on your day.
I swapped my Series 7 for the Ultra 2 because of 3 main factors. 1 the durability of the materials doesn’t require me to put a case or screen protector on it that really detract from the overall design. 2 the Ultra 2 battery life makes life a lot easier by not having to worry about multiple extended workouts in a day killing the battery. 3 the new S9 SIP allows on device Siri actions that are quicker and not flaky in responses like the previous gens are that do not have this. Over all I can say that I am very happy and never looking back to the regular series.
Returned mine, didnt use the Cellular features, beautiful watch but felt at £800 I'd probably never recoup that money back. Seen them selling already at £500 on fb
I still use my Apple Watch Series 7 daily, and still love it! I love your content so much, Aaron! Keep it up!:)
im on my watch ultra 1 and still running watchos 9.6.2, until they bring back the way control center works on watchos 9 i straight up refuse to update to watchos 10.
Can’t wait to get mine  ⌚️ great 👍🏻 video
Would you actually buy a new Ultra 2 if you own the Ultra 1 especially when it doesn’t include the blood oxygen app.
Is the Apple watch capable of multitasking(i.e. can it run the workout app and another app at the same time)?
Hi thx for review , if you leave your phone at home do you have to switch it off to get your watch to answer?
I love mine❤
the week it launched i said F it and just bought it. works just fine didn't have to overthink it
How is battery life on Ultra 1 vs Ultra 2? In usage in hours?
Does the display flip for people that I wear the watch on the right hand. If not, the controls look like they would be difficult to use.
Everyone saying this watch is too big must have small hands and wrist. I think it’s perfect and the perfect size for my wrist. I came from the series 7 and this watch is amazing and holds a charge for 3 days. My series 7 barely got 24 yrs.
The one thing apple needs to do is allow notifications on both the watch and the iPhone at the same time .
Absolutely love my ultra 2
For what it's worth, I love the interface on WatchSO 10. Control centre, widgets and button presses all work well for me and better than WatchOS 9.
I had the s5, then s8, and then then I went to the U2. As a LEO the extended battery life and durability was needed. 2 hour workouts and 15 hour shifts killed my s8. I’ve had this thing bang on walls, and been through some scuffles while still holding up. Apple, you’ve made a believer out of me with this thing!
I have my watch for a month,still perfect 
Good to know it’s durable (construction guy here) thanks Aaron
Ik how to find the cycle count on Apple Watch it’s called bast battery app I checked my series 6 amd it had 586 cycles with a battery capacity of 86% but I got the Apple Watch Ultra 2 and it’s a major upgrade from the 6 I love the big display
on ultra 2, firmware 10.3, how many days does the battery last?
Appreciate your consistent uploads keep going great content
I got mine a week or two after launch (early October). Has been good so far. My first Apple Watch and I am happy enough with it but I disable all the notification stuff and just use it to track workouts as I took up running last year so I use it a lot for that. Battery life is decent although I think as I don't care about any of the app features I might sell it and go for something that has longer battery life in the summer while I can still get good resell value. I only really have two disappointments; the first is the sleep tracking is pretty crap compared to even a $100 Fitbit. It isn't automatic which I was kind of shocked about and the second is you can't copy/sync audiobooks to the watch so if you want to go out for a run and listen to an audiobook you need your phone with you which is kind of stupid.
They really need a mat black version.
Question for you if you charge your Apple Watch at 66% all the way up to 100% will the battery health still stay at 100%.
I'm still using my apple watch series 6 going to use it until it's unsupported or it breaks don't feel the need to upgrade not got for Apple Watch series 9 I’m definitely not getting an Apple Watch Ultra 2 can’t afford that I won't pay £799 for it that’s ridiculous that for a Apple Watch ultra 2
Hi Aaron.  Concerning apps, could you make a video explaining what kind of information apps have access to on your device.  I recently got a iPhone 15 Pro and when looking at apps in the App Store i see that lots of apps collect very intrusive information most of the time. Maybe share with us what apps to avoid (in your opinion) based on what info they collect. Thank you, and have a great day.
As someone who had the ultra 1 and and now ultra 2 I feel that anyone who wants to get an ultra save your money and just buy the ultra 1 because there is not any difference. Double tap works when it wants to and you’ll probably use it handful of times before you realise it’s a gimmick more than anything else.
Ive had my AWU2 for just over 3 weeks now and I love everything except for the ugly orange action button. I thought it would grow on me but it hasn’t. Considering selling it and getting the series 9 stainless steel. The battery life on the AWU2  is good but it ain’t amazing. Just a 2 day watch. My series 8 would last me day and a half easy.
I want the watch face I have the series 8
May I know the brand of titanium strap on Apple Watch Ultra 2? Thank you.
Anyone crown is softer than 1st gen or any apple watch?
Perfect for my running. Went from 1min interval running/walking to full blown half and full marathon running. Did this all we just the ultra
Question...why charge the Ultra 2 every day when you can get 3-4 days of battery life out of it?
Just bought one upgrade from my SE. I love it display huge and thus far battery wayyyyy better than my old SE. The BOS not to concerned that it’s not available as I use on my smart ring.
Poo- The Nomad Sport Band Orange/Grey) is Sold Out. I agree it gets too dark and is hard to read.
i see that your modular is the altra and i guess that is why i do not have that watch face on my watch, guess i need. an alta i will tell my wife you told me so :)
My AWU1 battery life has tanked since watchos10. Only lasts a day and a half, as opposed to 2-3 days. Anyone else got the same issue?
Let me start by saying I love this watch...but the inability to adjust the brightness to my liking at any certain point is a huge turn off.. I/we paid a good amount of money for a  watch that we should have total control of..am I wrong? Again I love this watch..
I'm still rocking a series 4 but I plan on getting an ultra 2 in the next few days.
Why on my watch not mirroring phone apps like fb  messenger , instagram etc?
Where can i buy metal straps as yours
If you’re into fitness, and you’re an adventurous person, the watch is perfect. This watch is made for people who want a rugged look with durability.
better to buy ultra 1 for 2024
Is there any pink ones?
Bought the AWU 1 Jan ‘23 and it’s been a great watch ever since. I do plan to check out the AWU 3 & Watch X this year
I currently have the AWU 1 and if the Series 10/X is decent, I will go back to that. I really like the form factor and overall design of the regular Series AW
Weird it looks like my ultra1 but yet still looks different 🤷‍♀️
didn't think I'd like this as much as I do.
❤❤❤
I am considering buying an Apple Watch Ultra, but my concern is will it survive in salty Mediterranean water. Every summer i go with my kids kayaking in Greece all around the Aegean islands. We are constantly diving and doing all sorts of water activities and I am a bit cautious about taking a 1000 Euro device with me. Can anyone speak from experience?
Thank you for this great review. The only thing I hate about AW is that it doesn’t always update the complications / widgets. It usually does after enabling the wifi but I expected it to work only with the bluetooth connection from the iPhone….. Also it was nice if it could have more ringtones for the calls… I mean….. It has 64gb…… 😅😭
It seems to be holding up much better than the ultra 1,  I also hope apple has newer selection of bands for it other than the current three types we have now. Ones that really match the ultra.
My ultra 1 use to have battery life like that now it’s  only last a day
Anyone else not getting haptic notifications for third party apps like instagram and twitter x about 50% of the time or halfway through the day?
I have returned mt ultra 2 due to screen display.  I couldn't use it in dark, can't read the screen.
I got this one solely based on the battery alone. I like to take my watch only and leave my phone home, and this battery life for my use case is insane. 

I have only text/calls come to my watch. I have no other apps on the watch. I can realistically get a solid 3 days on standalone cellular. Worth it in my opinion if you are already in the iOS ecosystem and want to ditch your phone more and more.
Another informative and professional video. Thanks. As for your comment re the interface, I have to agree that I find the new design a retrograde step and much preferred the previous incarnation. Hopefully Apple will listen and bring back more of the features they removed in their 'upgrade'
Love mine ultra 2
I love my Apple Watch 2 I use android phones along with my iPhone but even if I’m carrying my s23 ultra I still use this watch over my galaxy . And don’t buy it if you have small wrist it will look comically big try it on before you buy it .
I have an iPhone 14 Pro which has poor battery life, scrolling stuttering and other annoying bugs, which make it unstable. I have 94% battery health after a year, and both factory reset and Apple employer didn’t help to resolve the issues. Should I trade in to the 15 Pro or 15 Pro Max or wait for the 16 Pro?
I am in love with my apple watch ultra 2 from the day I purchased it. It was a good upgrade from watch 7 series for me.
The Apple Watch Ultra 2 is great
The Ultra is far better than the others compared to the pricing and what you are getting for it! The series 9 in stainless steel + milanese band costs as much as the Ultra, but the Ultra is brighter, bigger and bigger screen, has better battery life + titanium and the action button. …the 45mm only looks more posh, that’s all.
It's STILL not bright enough for me.  

The level of brightness for the flashlight proves it could be brighter.  I don't care if that means a notable shorter battery life.
I got the Apple Watch Ultra 2 when it launched last year. It’s a decent watch but I really prefer my Garmin Epix Pro. I saw in order to get around the blood oxygen sensor patent dispute, Apple is no longer shipping its watches with those sensors. And yet the price is exactly the same as it was before. The functionality of these new watches being shipped are now inferior and anyone purchasing the watches are paying the same price as the ones with sensors. That doesn’t set well with me and it makes Apple look even more greedy than before.
Either your eye sight is really bad or you're lying and I mean no offense by this whatsoever, I barely touched the wooden door frame with my watch and it left a scratch, when taking it off it dinged against my wedding band ever so lightly and it left a dent and here you are saying you banged it against concrete and brick walls and not a scratch? Do reviewers get some different versions and us normal people get the less superior ones? Because for some reason nearly all reviewers claim their ultra been through hell without a scratch 😂 BS
Can you shower with it on and can it be in the rain?
I swear to my pinky toes you sound like the guy in crysis...
Why would I buy an Apple Watch !

And not a Garmin or Suunto watch ?
Can you give me a apple watch ultra 😅 please
The most pointless purchase I ever make! Smart watch in general for me is just a money grabbing gimmick no one actually need.
It is outrageous we can’t set gradients of display brightness no matter if dimmed, normal or bright. 
Also takes FOREVER to acquire heart rate [should be CONSTANT/IMMEDIATE].
SO MANY DEFICIENCIES/SHORTCOMINGS for a ‘premier’ company.

DO BETTER APPLE!!
might as well buy another iphone stick it on your wrist 😂😂
First comment 0 seconds ago
This watch is far too large for any advantages that does not offer. The screen size is only marginally larger than that of the 45 mm case. And  this watch offers no other features over the 45 mm and weighs twice as much as an aluminum 41 mm.
its pretty worthless. not worth the price.
What watch face are you using?
Best Apple Watch ever .. I’ll never go back to the regular models .. I’m an ultra user for life !!!
I love my ultra 2 best purchase ever, what is that app at the beginning of the video, like a compass?
Just upgraded yesterday. Nice and chunky. Still have to mess around with the gestures when I have time.
I love the chunkiness of the watch! I’ve always liked big watch faces. Could you provide the links to the other watch bands in your video?
Just got mine the other day and I absolutely love it!
I have an old Apple Watch 6 I think it is. I’m wondering if the 2 is worth it now? Or should I wait til whenever the 3 is out? I like that it has a titanium casing and some other health features and stuff.
just upgraded from the Nike SE first gen to this, not been delivered yet but can't wait.
battery life and display being scratch resistant is very good reason to upgrade to ultra. I honestly didn't feel bothered by size, i even slept with it on my wrist once and didnt realize watch was there.
I need it for swimming, I assume it’s a good choice as I’ve just bought one
Love your honesty review dear ❤
Should I go for it? I’m coming from a galaxy watch active 2 and want something comparable to that one. Also I’ve never had an Apple Watch before. I’m on my first iPhone ever too.
The extended battery life over the regular Apple watch is a huge feature. 
The regular Apple watch needs a bigger battery and more life.
I have the series 7 and I love I don’t think I change it unless apple bring new health stuff
Love the ultra 2
I would say get the ultra 2 because of the s9 chip, it will support more future updates like double tab.
Hieyyy what’s the watch face @2:25
Maaaann I love my ultra 2 especially the battery life.🔋👌🏾. Just upgraded from a series 5 only a week ago and don’t regret it at all.😊
Can you swim for more then a hour in it?
I can’t wait. I’m getting one first thing tomorrow. I’m upgrading from my dying series 7 the battery life on that thing anymore.
Double tap is just one of the greatest thing ever !!!!!!!!!!! While having a text message, a call, skipping the song ! Incredible, not only about the ultra 2 but thinking more about the series 9
The bigger the watch the better imo! I have small wrists but I love the way the ultra looks and feels. I love my Ultra!
I am NOT doing extreme sports but I do a lot of hiking in the mountains and my old watch used to run empty half the hike which is extremely annoying. The constant use of GPS and cellular was too much for it, ridiculous measurements for hight distances were annoying. The EKG function is extremely cool (as a doctor I plan to use it also for patients to catch a rhythm, you can even recognize a past heart attack on the pattern if you know what you’re doing. I am sold, never looking back. I also love the big display and I don’t care about the looks all that much.
The last watch I had was the series 7 about a year ago and I loved it unfortunately I had to sale it but I just picked up a ultra 2 yesterday it’s amazing it’s so well built and just does so much I’ll never be without a watch again I think my favorite feature is night mode I love that red look it’s no way I can go back to the regular models
Been thinking about getting one what’s the battery life? I’m currently getting about 10 days battery life on my current smartwatch so after 10 days my watch is still at 22% is the ultra similar in battery life ?
@marina who on earth can resist to hit like ,notify and subscribe when you say it in such a lovely way❤
I'm 6'6" so I just bought it for the size. Other watches look small on me,
Best review!! Straight to the point and not a such long video! Thank you! After months debating I’m definitely going for it today!
Yes it’s worth it.. Ultra all the way 🔥
Where did you get the black rubber strap for the watch?
I have the 9. I don’t dive and the ultra is too big but I like the design.
I’m a wood worker I work in a shop with lots of dust and more very active sweat blood and even tears would this watch work for me lol
🍏
TOO CLUNKY!
(ULTRA MINI)FOR FEMALES?
Nice and honest I think it’s so bulky especially for a woman I’ll stick with my series 8 , just gave you a sub 👍😎
Currently looking for items I don’t use to sell to justify this purchase lol
The problem is that ultra 2 looks way better than the classic one, that's why you wanna go with the ultra..
For the battery life alone, it’s worth it for me and the bigger screen also.  I’m very active and I’m always on the go so for the battery life alone it’s worth it for me. I don’t want to always worry about having a charge my watch every 10 to 20 hours like I had to do with my Apple Watch Series 6 from which I upgraded from    The most I have gotten out of it after doing a test is around 2 1/2 days then I had to recharge it. Yes it is a chunky watch however, I like big watches and again like I said, I like to be able to see everything that is on my watch screen much easier to read messages and to type on so for me it is worth it.
Can you please buy me one
I don't know why, but I prefer your videos in English, and I'm Brazilian.
They need a smaller ultra series for women
Is anyone else having a problem with putting a passcode on their watch?
Had my ultra 2 since November I’m an ultra customer for life !!
KEEP IT! LOL
3:33 what is a woman??
This video is sponsored by 🍏
Too big for your wrist. It looks like you wear handcuff.
Why are we here in this life? Why do we die? What will happen to us after death?!!
I have a new series 9 product red45mn I’ll trade u with boot. Spotless 100% battery
If you want to get more battery life from your Apple Watch. Here’s some tips and tricks that will help - https://youtu.be/MXsTCmXH3qM
This is probably the best video explaining the features and uses of the Apple watch out there. Just switched from a Galaxy watch to a Ultra2 and this video was exactly what i needed.
Picked up an Ultra 2 today, thanks for this!! 👌🏻
Thank you for the excellent tips! Just recently got the ultra
I own Apple Watches since the first launch. I got the Ultra 2 recently, and i thought i knew almost everything. Wow dude, you taught me a lot with this video. Flawless narrative with very detailed explanations, zoom, highlights etc. Great review! Instant like and subscribe. Thanks!
Great explanation. You are one of the very few youtubers who work hard to give us a very good quality video. Good stuff mate✌️
I must have watched at least 5-10 videos in order to get the basic settings for the watch and only you talked about the features I actually care about! I really wish I had found your video first and not wasted my time watching others. They all just happened to talk about things I don't care for or don't have. So, thanks again for the very useful video!
Thanks, that was amazing, keep up the good work
Best video I’ve found about the watch so far!! Thanks!! Getting mine today 🎉🎉🎉
I just got mine today and love it. This video has been a great help. I'll probably watch it several times. Thanks
Just got my ultra 2 yesterday I Love it Already I Switched from the Series 7
I got one since Friday it’s amazing
A use for the watch face mirroring would be, (not sure if it'd work) is if u bind the action button to like, opening the garage, and you dont got it on you
Thanks ! Cant wait for my watch to arrive now :) ! Great video !
Just ordered an Ultra 2 so this is just what I need! Thanks. Subbed.
i am looking forward to get my watch and iphone tomorrow to test this :D thanks for share
If you set the emergency SOS always on, it says if you take a hard fall and don't seem to move it will initiate an emergency SOS. What if you move after the fall will it call emergency services? What happen if you still move?
Got my watch today, going to enjoy this video thoroughly
What an excellent video, thanks pal
For the assistive touch, is there an option to control music specifically? Play, pause, skip, etc?
I have one arm. The Apple Watch mirroring is super useful to me in lots of ways. 😊 thanks for showing me this my ultra 2 should be here day after tomorrow!!🎉
Hello, I’m from France. About contolling the apple watch from the phone: I use it to mute or set a timer or an alarm when the watch is on the charger away from me and I’m in bed half asleep and don’t want to get up 😊 excelent video, thank you
Thanks for your video the info provided and style was awesome! 😎✌️
I like your blue screen setup. I have mine on multi colour but I’m going to nick that idea mate, nice one 😂
"when the mc's came to live out the name". The GZA's Liquid Swords album was perfect, every track was a certified Wu Banger, respect  to you for having that in your apple music app, the only rap era that I will give the time of day to.  Killah Hills 10304 is my personal favorite from that album, great AW Ultra 2 tips as well.
Thanks for the video. I honestly hadn't ever thought about having 3 different faces for work, fitness etc. Thanks very much. 🙂
Brilliant video, tons of info, lovely presenting voice, HQ images.  You’re the best
Refreshingly clear and concise. Subscribed
Upgraded to a S9 from my S3, a real blessing. More battery, 8 times the capacity, brighter screen, more watchfaces… its like a completely new world
TQ for a great start up video
Great review mate and informative article
Do you mind telling me what case do you have on your watch? It matches so well with the band. Thank you.
Well done thank you
Neat and informational content.. one of the very few who produce some quality content.
Great video with some tips I was unaware of
thanks it was very helpfull
Excellent video. Another use for "6. Control your watch from your phone" is to mirror the watch face in a Zoom training session. Maybe easier to demonstrate watch features than mirroring the watch face.
I feel like a good use case for the control from
Your phone would be if your watch is packed and you quickly need the information on it
If you want to learn about the best camera settings for iPhone. Check this out : https://youtu.be/60Hhn0YzJCQ
Thanks for the suggestions. One point: Red light really has nothing to do with circadian rhythm. The night faces are red because red light does not impair one's night vision like white light does. If your eyes are dark adapter (takes around 20 minutes for maximum adaptation), shining white light in them will cause you to have to start over adapting to the darkness. Red light has minimal effect on one's dark adapter night vision.
Thank you !!!!
Very useful and interesting. Thank you.
Can the Action Button be controlled per mode?
Just upgraded from a series 6 to an ultra 2 last night. Fully charged and put on my wrist about 30 min ago. I'll be back in 24 hours with an update 😀. Screen will be always on.
very informative, thanks
I know that is an alpine band but what is the protective cover on your watch? Could you please provide a link? Thanks
Perfect thnks
Watch mirroring: you could create custom workouts in a bigger screen instead of the small watch face.
Great video, thank you!
Great video
Hey Mate, nice video, thanks for the tips. Just one thing: Did you mean to leak your location? In the compass demonstration, you're showing the full coordinates. Maybe blur those? It pin-points a specific house in a residential area in Welwyn Garden City.
fantastic vid thanks
Great video. Thank you.
Thank you, this video was amazing!!
Great video tutorial for beginners as me ! First time I bought Apple Watch , the Ultra 2 ,I love it and I have a question: most of the time if I load an app or settings , I see a loading animation for 1 second in most of apps ..is it normal ? Cause my 13PM it’s more snappier loading apps
Great Video. Thank you
Great video well explain 👍 subbed
Hey. The phone Home Screen looks sick. How did you do it?
Subbed!🎉❤ thank you so much,
I have the Apple Watch series 9.. Can I get the steps on watch face>
Hey man, what is the name of the case you have on the watch?
Hey, how did you get the goggle widget? I can’t find it on my phone:( thanks!
Do you have a video for different bands?
I followed these steps but when I go back to my action button settings I have no option to select shortcuts, did I miss a step somewhere?
at the start of the video how do you get that watch face on the series 9??
Can i have my watch not wake up on raise and with some way watch wake up auto when notification comes?
For some reason the weather complication on my Apple Watch ultra 2 does not always work. Sometimes it doesn’t load or it shows me a wrong location. I tried opening the weather section on the watch app and setting up to mirror my iPhone, but it sometimes doesn’t work.
Very useful and well presented with witty captions.  Just sub'd 👍
Got my ultra 2 two days ago, I love gadgets so , yea it’s great, I’m 72 yrs old but still a phone and watch junkie. It’s great, the battery is my best like. I use Siri a lot too, my advice is get it on 24 month payments, that way you don’t pay out a lot of money all at once. Great video subscribed.😅
Great video!!! What case are you using ?
What watch band and silicon cover is that thanks
I just got the UW2…there is no shortcut listing for the action button 😫
How do I get social
Media fb or ig and hv it also measure my ekg and blood pressure? Blood o2 level is not important. I nd a watch for that
Where is that band and guard from ?
What is the watch band called?
not sure I see the point of having a separate watch face for activity tracking/training since you usually have the app of your choice running for tracking the activity you are doing, e.g. walking, running, weight lifting, biking and so on.
wheew did you get that batteries widget??
Great video! You earned my subscription.
What bumper case is that
nice
Just bought S9 yesterday. I can’t use it as my iPhone can’t upgraded to ios17😢. Thx Apple
Did you notice this display flickering issue while removing the watch? ( with the alpine loop)Is it normal? Comes most of the time like the display has loose connection kind of a thing, not all the time it comes, with latest 10.3.1, excuse for the poor video quality since I had to take by myself, some how managed to get a video of it, pls advise, TIA
I tried the shortcut for the action button but the one I wanted on the action button said it failed/error so I’m thinking maybe it’s because the app which works on my phone won’t work on my watch unfortunately
The shortcut app strava  is not appearing on the Apple Watch app
Can you share the link for your wallpapers? I joined the channel membership because of the cool batman wallpapers! Thanks!
The strava on shortcut doesn’t work for me. Idk why. Cant see to set the strava shortcut
What band is that?
Thanks for the detailed review! I would like to see an overview of how Wi-Fi works. I think it will be interesting for many people!🙂
Does anyone know what case he’s using?
Thank you for the video.  I believe the new series 9 Apple Watch no longer has to be tethered to an iPhone to work properly.  Is this the case? If you also happen to have the cellular watch and account, you can do most anything on the watch without needing an iPhone. Thanks again!
🔥🔥
Are there watchfaces that give you Japanese numbers and days of the week?
Can anyone help?  Got me new Ultra 2 today and added the "MyZone" shortcut as indicated at around 13:30 in the video so I can use it during "Workout". However, the "shortcuts" option didn't show up as when I clicked on action  in workout as seen at 13:36 in the video..  Any suggestions on how to fix?
What is your wrist size in mm and you choose which size is your alpine loop?
I tried to get my strava to the action button… but it doesn’t show shortcuts when i open it in settings. Anybody knows how to fix this? Or is this option not available in the Netherlands…
Which band is the best for ultra?
you activated my Siri loll
I was not expecting a savage  attack on Rishi Sunak and Boris Johnson. #Brutal
You called it wearOS in section 4 for Smart Stack LOL
Homie casually dropping his coordinates
The assistive touch feature is not out yet. it is coming "later this year" I believe. The feature you are showing has been around for many years :)
24:37 that is not what it bases it on, that's completely separate
Maybe if you have a neck pain, you might want to mirror watch on iPhone.
9:26 — You don't need to hold on to it. A simple tap is enough.
Wallpaper please?
Call ghostbusters lol
Affects your circadian rhythms? 😂
wot theme do u have ...looks like android lol
15:32 Did u just dox yourself?! 😂
First thing to do with the Apple Watch Ultra II is return it.  I purchased 2 months ago and it is a POS.  Don’t buy but I’d you do, understand the return policy because that will be the most useful information to you after you try and use it.
did bro just leak his address on video?
So I can choose not to get notifications about any politicians I do not want? Was going well until you chose to politicise it.
I used it for 2 days and returned it due to screen display at night or dark environment.  Apple has set auto dimming to low that seeing makes very difficult for weak eyes to see it. The watch is great for first time buyers if you can get one.
Best tip - don’t buy an Apple Ultra II.  These are non-returnable for a reason.  I love my other Apple devices but wish I never purchased an Ultra II.  Not worth $5.
having ur face as a face is really creepy
not a iphone man but some good tips like always 
where did you get modular ultra? from I have the ultra and don't see that face. I see it on the watch but not on the phone to edit it.
Thank you so much for this basic tutorial!  This is my first Apple Watch, it was very helpful.
Fantastic video! I just purchased my watch yesterday and this video will certainly come in handy. I will definitely refer to it many times. Thanks so much!!!
The ABSOLUTE BEST feature I LOVE on my Apple Watch Ultra 2 is the always on display and Night mode.
Great video. Really direct and helpful
I can received in my iPhone messages or what’s app with sound with my Apple Watch in my wrist, I have series 4 for many years until apple update to 16.4 or 5 now doesn’t work, I appreciate if you know how I can fix it , I do everything, resetting setting , works for a little while, I put my pace id and my credit cards, and stop working again,
How can I get that app store 😅
I love my Ultra 2!
i like these video
love it
Nice tutorial, thanks prag
How do you charge for the first time I am finding it difficult to charge it and to start it
How to recharge
Great video I like how you speak and your voice level
I’m torn between the olive and blue , which one do u think it’s better ? Which suits ultra the best?
The lightening pro 2 is $50 cheaper here…is it worth to give 50 more for type c?? ( is sound signature same ??)
no difference to the first ultra?
Salide?
Sir mai nay abhi ultra 2 apple watch li hai . lakin mojay yay wifi , airplane mode,app store nai mill raha mean nai hai yay kia waja hai.kia iphone say connect karay gai tab show ho ga
Everyone saying the ultra 2 is the same as the ultra 1 are dumb asf🤣I have both and comparing them look wise yes they are the same but everything else is way better and different then the ultra 1💯and why pay $800 for the first one when the ultra 2 is $800
The Ultra 2 and most all Apple Watches are designed to stay on all the time not just raise to look.
Nothing on the different watch faces
It’s shit that half the features ONLY work with the newest shit even though the 14 has the same features 😐
Друг не говори шёпотом. Говори пожалуйста в полный голос. В этом видео уже чуть лучше.
Il cinturino è montato storto
Talking too much and then he sound weird
useless
If you buy the Ultra II, keep the box, it has more utility.  Ultra II is awful.  I tried ti return but was informed they are non returnable.  I am an Apple Fan Boy and I am telling you to take a pass on the Ultra II.
First
This is where he slides the Ultra 1 back into the box and keeps the 2 and then no one check it for years lol
Yeah, Nick needs to do more videos. The candidness is just spectacular
i want to know the story behind why nick bought the first apple watch despite normally not wanting to spend that kind of money. great host, would be happy to see him again.
6:29 you have to tilt the way AWAY(I.e forwards) for full brightness for the flashlight. Apple made it like that so you don’t immediately flash bang yourself when you use the flashlight
The reactions on the first Siri test at 7:22 were fantastic! 😂 Nick needs to be on here more often
Nick is actually a cool guy. More videos with him!
First LMG video that I liked in a long time. I like Nick’s laidback, no mumbo jumbo attitude.
Nick is a great host!
Nick has such a soothing voice, need more of him in vids
Upgraded from the 1st gen SE to the Ultra 2. Absolutely love it. Wonderful for marathon training.
FYI flashlight is WAY brighter when you aim the screen towards the ground. It dims when facing up, I assume to protect eyes.
Nick has an amazing voice and hilarious hosting personality!!!
Its always great to see Nicks face on a LTT video! Great breakdown and awsome feedback on the new watch.
I've not seen much of this guy before but that was such a well done review. More Nick please!
You didn't show the new double pinch feature, for this you need WatchOS 10.1 ...
You showed us assistive touch which also works on the old one ...
I don't remember Nick Light hosting any other clips (sorry if he did). I loved him, well done. Please more :-)
Nick needs to be on camera more 😭
Very cool to see Nick do a video again, been a long long time. He doesn't have that 'ADHD' energy that some others do, but he did great and I think he would do great in some Mac Address videos.
Great review, nice and calm. I like it 👌🏻
I loved the candidness of the  video. Very practical. Need more reviews from him
Just wanted to throw some HYPE Nick's way, did an amazing job! A previous user of the product is there perfect person to review the new one.
Nick with them down to earth takes! 
Respect +
loved this dude,,,
you guys should make him do more videos
This was a great review! 
Thanks for the blunt honestly, id watch this guy if he did a review for every single product. 
Genuinely genuinely good
I love how the price of the watch just keeps going up . First $1000 then $1500
If the finger pinch gestures get more sophisticated in future, I can see Apple marketing the Apple Watch as being able to improve the accuracy of Vision Pro hand tracking for that hand
LTT needs to acknowledge the existence of sport smartwatches like Garmins and Suuntos. Imo, they are better in many aspects than Apple's and Samsung's offerings.
I have an Apple Watch Series 6 and been thinking about an ultra but most of the time I just use my watch as a display or for my workouts and I actually use the flashlight all the time lol but I don't think I would get the most out of an Ultra 2 so I appreciate the honesty with this review, I'll just wait then :) I wish the watches were cheaper though even with discounts and trade ins I still ended up paying nearly 300 dollars for it which is way too much for a watch
It's always nice watching a lmg og in a video. Great video Nick
Have you done any dark environments testing?  The screen get dimmed too low to see the texting and gps.  I have return the watch after w days of use and waiting on Apple to fix this issues.
I just want to see a focused comparison between the two action buttons. Responsiveness with the onboard Siri and all
Apple Watch 1 was personally the ultimate premium unboxing experience. Super dense plastic box combined with thick paper exterior box.
Nick's voice is so soothing. I could listen to him review stuff for hours. We need more Nick content
I actually really enjoyed him. He should definitely do more videos
9:14 best description ever! 😂
Get nick to review way more often. He's great
I got it, my first...it has some bugs, but it is also really cool, since new to this but $1000 price tag, worth it? Not sure but it is cool and to take a call from your wrist, have you done that?
My 6 battery is giving up the go so I need to get a new one... not sure if I want the Ultra or not... Great review! You pointed out features I wasn't paying attention to at the event!
“Most premium unboxing experience”
Proceeds to not even unbox it at all. It comes in an outer box that packages the watch and the band, with beautiful artwork on the inside of the outer “box” which is more like an origami type container that lays open flat.
I just bought one. How is your ultra 2 under dark conditions? Mine goes a little too dim when it’s very dark. And even if my brightness is max it’s a little too dim for my liking. Is this normal or do I have a factory defect?
The unboxing was the same as my watch SE 2nd gen 🤣
Nick was so relaxed! Such a chill video, but had all the information, and I don't even care about Apple or Apple Watches.
Was cool to see nick hosting a video, really enjoyed his commentary.
Does someone know where to download the wallpaper on the screen on the left
So...stupid n00b question here probably, if i manage to get a hold of an apple watch but don't like apple phones, can i use it with android phone, like i do with the airpods ?? what functionality will i be loosing ?
The Hitman of the short circuit
I love your humor man
Glad to see my second gen SE is still the watch for me at a cool $250-ish. Series 9, and ultra have some neat features but I just don’t need or want all of that for double, or quadruple the price.
Apple Watch flashlight is reduced when faced up. To get the full brightness you need to point it away. It is to prevent bright light damage your eyes. 6:22
“My action button is set to workout” next minute “hey siri, where is the nearest Burger King”
I have a Garmin watch and it was set to the flashlight by default. Unfortunately it's a gesture and it would get activated at night, I'd wake up with either a hot watch or a dead watch, and it took me a while to figure out why. Despite how useful that feature was, I disabled it. It sure would be nice to tie that function to a button! A whole side of the watch is free, just give me one more button!
Including a charging cable in the box is already enhancing the "apple unboxing experience" by 200%
After the GPS offline mode test did he turn wifi back on?😢
you guys should have tested if the double tap feature would activate when gaming or typing on PC
You take the watch off every night to charge? But how do you record your sleeping patterns? I only charge my watch once about every two weeks, for an hour by my desk, and wear it every night to analyze exactly how I sleep. Then again I don't run ultra marathons. I have an Huami GTR2.
It's been awhile since Nick has had anything more than a cameo in an LMG video. I think he had more hair last time though... Lol. Nice to see him again
More videos with this guy!
That’s not a real test of on device Siri, you need to turn your internet connection on the phone off as well. So that demonstration was still connecting to the internet so it could pull up the map. On device stuff is like setting a timer, not something that requires internet
YOU HAD ME AT NICK LIGHT!!
wtf is a premium unboxing experience
I’m actually surprised people prefer the Alpine band. I went with the Orange Alpine for my Ultra 1 because I love orange but my buddy got the Blue trail band and I thought his was way more comfortable and didn’t have the titanium clasp on the bottom scratching everything you put your wrist down on. I just got my Ultra 2 and got the Orange Ocean band and it’s by far my favorite and most comfortable.
i like this guy, do more videos with him.
This is like the weakest revision they could possibly of did for a 2nd full revision
this whole episode is ASMR i like it
For almost this entire video - I thought the speaker or record player (or whatever the circle is in the background) was a cutout of the Apple Watch side button 🤣 I didn’t think much further about it- pretty much just watching /listening to the host, but that’s what my brain thought.
That belkin 3-in-1 charger isn't really good for the iPhone's. I had 3 of them and had to send it back b/c we had to remove the case and then charge our iPhone's which isn't something that we want to do all the time when charging them. Any people on Amazon said the same thing about that charger from belkin.
Would love to see a garmin fenix or epic watch reviewed at some point.
Never had an ultra, but I just upgraded from the Apple Watch 3 to the 9 and man the jump from the 3 to 9 is just amazing. I can genuinely use the watch for smart watch purposes rather than a notification screen I can access at work without getting in trouble like the 3. This is the watch generation I think that’s the real begging to the smart wearables
The sarcasm is strong in this one. Nick must do more videos 🤣🤣🤣
More of him please
Nick is great 👍
He is looking sharp with that watch
Just upgraded from the series 6 to the ultra watch 2! WOW 😯 What an upgrade!
if I lose my car in the parking lot, I use my trusty separation anxiety ridden Dog to find where I parked. Call his name, and he'll howl SUPER LOUDLY. Though now my car 's pretty unique and hard to miss since it's a unique color and a giant TUNDRA with the nice extended bed and crewmax cab. I went with their brown. Super classy looking. Great car, came with a gun safe, who doesn't need one of those. Got my Walther glock wannabe. Since it's one of my few CHEAP guns.
I work in construction and have the Watch Ultra 1, for a smart watch it has proven to be fairly rugged... but it's probably more smart watch than I actually need and was a waste of money in the long run
What is your wrist size in mm?
Nick I miss when you were frequently in videos, hope you start showing up more again, even just for small stuff
I love my Apple Watch ultra 2 that my wife bought me for my birthday, though it needs a software update as it goes too dim sometimes in low light
I like this guy, he needs to be in more videos!
i dont have one of the multichargers - bc i have a cat - and have to charge stuff in a draw lol 
and im a flashlight action button guy
This guy should do voice-over of Linus, almost therapeutic listening to him
Never thought I’d see Nick as main person on the camera again
The LTT/PC World crossover is happening.
This has to be one of the least "premium" looking watch unboxings I have seen.
Next watch video should have a skit where someone has a trench coat full of watches
When is the wheel 2 review coming?
love this guy 🤣❤️
Oh look. It’s the guy who was making LTT store plugs in the middle of an apology video.
The last line lol
It's been so long since I've seen Nick in a video that I wasn't quite sure if this was even him 😅
More videos with Nick please and thanks
It has cool workout function ... 10 seconds later: hay siri where is neares burger king
Do more vids with Nick, his voice is very nice to listen to
It's been a long damn time since I saw Nick in a LMG video, the last time I remember was in a CSF video. I mean, CSF + Nick Light = damn I'm getting old
Cannot get over the fact, that you got Michael Chiklis to present this.
Coneheads sequel looking good
Apples Most premium unboxing experience... Pulls out a VELCRO band XD
love it
Wow. King Pin jobbed so hard he had to go to work in Canada. 😂
Just fucking with ya' dude! ❤️
Honestly I want the ultra for the durability, i'm not going scuba diving anytime soon, but of I dip in the ocean I’ll be calm knowing the salt won’t damage it
What is that? 
-It's a white light.
-What does it do?!
Shines white.
Love his energy. Nick should be in more videos.
The watch is $799, not discounted! First you say “$1000 watch” and then “$1500 watch”. Great watch!
The flashlight caught me off guard...😂 My screen was too damn bright
This guy needs to do all products that are a “upgrade” from the last version lol
well i have the se2 watch. i actually want a fenix watch but thisll do
According to fashion all the metal on your body should match, i.e. Your belt buckle is the center piece and everything should match that. So if your belt buckle is gold so should your tie-clip, watch band, cuff links and eyelets on your shoes.
The fact that Apple got OLED Material and not LED to shine at 3000 nits is simply astonishing that is considering most OLED televisions top out at 1200 NITS max
says its the most premium unboxing experience, and shows none of it hahah great job.
I only have a phone, no watch or other stuf. So cable is good enough for me, even if I love most new tech I only use what I need. If I`d use a watch like this I would accidently break within the first couple of hours...
Just buy the damn thing.    I love it.   The Ultra is good and tough.  No scratches on the crystal after a year of abuse.  You can pick up an Ultra One for like 500+ bucks.
please  a waring befor the flashbang
Nick Light!!
Where you been bud?
Is the increase in nits of brightness something companies should race to the top for or is 1500-2000 good enough to move on to something new or more important?
the flashlight was so bright it blew me into an ad
Soothing voice, that is!
Thanks!
“I’ve had the Series 4 for 6 or 7 years before I moved up to this one” this guy is spitting things out of his ass. When the first ultra came out, it was only out for 4 years. As of now, the Series 4 has only been out for 5 years😂
My favorite non-writer at LTT mostly because he replies to me on twitter sometimes
I like this guy, his voice is soothing AF
The number one reason to buy an Ultra at all is battery life. I only charge my watch every 3 days and use sleep tracking.
Eyy. i missed Nick. OG right here.
Nick Light!? NICK LIGHT?!? More nick pleaseeeeeee
so when did the premium unboxing start? im like 9 mins in and not a single time have i seen anything "premium"
Is the watch cable braided?
He has a good relaxing voice..
I want a Burger King now, after Nick mentioned it. 😂
Yeah, please don't do that flashbang effect ever again.
Here’s an idea: a voice for Siri that makes it sound like Ewan McGregor’s Obi-Wan Kenobi. That would be amazing 😄

Naturally it would be accessed by saying “hello there”.
Double pinch it's not available in the 7.0.3. However, this option is available in the 7.1 Beta 3.
If that is video is an unboxing, the gimmick that he is using is the AssistiveTouch (accessibility). Please be more accurate in your videos.
That thumbnail is eggcellent.
Well today I’ve learned that I can change brightness of Apple Watch flashlight with crown. Awesome!!!
I went from a Series 6 to an Ultra 2; main benefit is battery life.
I still don't get why you want a watch with such a short batterylife, get a garmin, suunto or any other sportswatch, they have 10x the batterylife!
And NO ultrarunner will use a watch with such a batterylife!
Maybe should mention that the double tap feature is not out yet for the general public to use?
I gave my Apple Watch 8 to my mom early this year so she could monitor her health. I’m going to be getting a new one soon and I’m contemplating the ultra. I don’t know if I can justify the extra cost tho.
10min? How’s this short? I thought this segment only does short videos
i like this guy
Wait what was the "most premium unboxing"?
I was scepticle seeing a new staff member, but i like him, make him a regular.....
This guy is hilarious 😂
He looks like the emojis I like this 😊
I’ve got a muscle disability… you’re buying me dinner 😂 (this is meant as a joke)
Yooooo nick doing a review <3
You don’t need to say “set a timer for 38 minutes” just “38 minutes”
it doesn't change the overall review basically at all, but it's worth noting that what they're using here is NOT the "Double Tap" feature that's promised. They're using the accessibility feature AssistiveTouch that Double Tap is built upon. Double Tap didn't release with watchOS 10 that the Ultra 2 and Series 9 run on, and will be released sometime in the next two weeks with watchOS 10.1

How you don't ship your headline feature with your product is beyond me....
This is NOT the double-tap feature.  He was showing the old accessibility feature.... you have to be on 10.1 beta.
It thought it was Anthony Fantano for a second lol
I like this guy
3:06 how tf could you just judge me by not having a $150 wireless charger in 2023, dont let this guy host ever again
Man i miss you from the videos. Remember channel super fun? Good times.
"Where is the nearest Burger King?"
You have Banana For Scale. You NEED Scale For Scale and Scale For Banana!
Damn, Michael Chiklis keeps looking younger, year by year.
I bought an original Ultra shortly after it came out. My biggest complaint is how egregiously expensive the accessories are. $100 for an extra band? Get outta town with that. You already got me on an $800 freaking watch.
The 2 looks slightly darker here, maybe its just my screen
LTT math: a series 4 watch that was replaced with the ultra (same year as the series 8 came out) = having the series 4 for 5-6 years 🤣🤣🤣
I just put 0.1g of salt on my wrist and could feel it. Where are we going for dinner?
If you are NOT an athlete you do not need to buy an Ultra. I do Ironmans, and I find it super useful, even ditched my Garmin FR965 for the AW Ultra, couldn't be more happy with it.
Nick!!
6:28 the difference is more in the sun then in the dark.
No differences other than the brightness 😅

I'm waiting for Apple to include their ear phones in the watch 10 years after Huawei nailed it. The Watch Buds is the best smartwatch right now.
i like this guy!
Love the review. And i 100% agree with the outcome. More so the fact that outcome could be said for any device in the last 3-5years. Its good but the old ones still work fine and dont need replacing. Look after your stuff and it will last years. And work perfectly fine. Most would last even longer if they just made it easy to replace batteries... thanks to the EU that may ine day be a reality!
Nick's got some voice, man
You used your series 4 for about 4 years.
I am also a Nick fan! More from Nick please!
Great for muggers.
That beautiful orange side button lets all muggers know you have an Apple watch on your wrist that costs 900 USD.
Also when you buy a 900USB watch you kinda expect that the wristband is already attached to the watch.
You can buy the cheapest watch for like 10 USD and it has the wristband nicely attached but Apple doesn't want to spend time and money on that and just calls it a feature. (I call it lazy)
Of all the LTT videos that have come out in the last year, this is the one where I'm most curious to see the like/dislike ratio. Who hates Nick and his hosting style? Who loves him? I need answers!
I really need to know the 0.1G difference
We dont deserve Nick, hes too good
Does everyone else’s Apple Watch ultra 2 ring and alert even when locked, docked, & charging while you’re not even in the house? My wife is annoyed cause she keeps being blasted with my calls while I’m not home.
i really dislike apples workout data layout compared to the customization options on my garmin fenix watch. If apple would be more like garmins interface they could have my money.
We need more Unboxings with Nick!😁
I’m feeling a light 5, TRANsition
3:20 - It's a fucking 1m cable... A ONE METER CABLE
A chill presentor, just felt abit judged when he said if I didn't have a dual wireless charger what am I doing.
Even tho I don't own any Apple products, and would never spend 1k on a smartwatch. I rather spend 1k on a mechanical only time telling watch
Decided to get the ultra 2 so it could match the natural titanium of my promax. And I do agree with you, no one needs to spend this amount of money, unless you fall into the specific categories where you need it. I got it as a graduation gift for myself for finishing college. compared to my series 6, the display is much bigger, and way brighter outdoors.
Let's go LMG diversity!   An employee with zero facial hair!  XD
Apple products:
*same same no difference*
Confused by his timeline. Said he had a series 4 for 6-7 years before switching to the ultra, series 4 has been out for almost exactly 5 years assuming he got it at launch. So he’s at minimum 2 years off.
I just got one of these and leave my phone at home daily - I stopped scrolling stupid social forever & the wife loves the attention ❤
Nick is a great host
It’s nick light!
Nick is just Nick Offerman but bald
Where did LTT found this hammer head of horror
Really like the design, too bad about the battery life.
Is he a question-talker? Yes, he is 😅
Sonic Egg Man
Damn apple realy just released the exact same product with a 2 on it
His voice is almost radiostar quality
I don't get why there's apple content outside the MAC Address channel
An apple watch owner telling us its not worth buying an apple watch... thats what i like to hear. I too wouldnt even consider spending that much on a watch.
My watch cost far less, does watch things, and i havent replaced the battery in 10-15 years, and if i bash it on things it just shrugs it off and carries on.
Bro you lowkey look like J. Kenji Lopez
me watching this while i have my galaxy watch 6 on my wrist
Nick I'm sorry man but 


MR.EGGGMAN
As a professional watch I understand it but as a watch for normal people doing normal everyday work and fitness I don’t think it comes close to the series 9 because of weight,bulk and price….seriously needs to be a whole lot thinner…will wait till probably Ultra 4
Apple refers to the strap as a 'loop'? Give me a break.
When did you guys hire Michael Chiklis?
I like this guy
2:13 
Huh?????
I love the dude, want to see him more often. Good vid! 😍
the whole Apple event I was waiting for Watch Ultra 2, as Mac and Watch Ultra are probably the best of Apple products and actually something innovative, iphones, airpods, etc are just sh!t.

With Watch Ultra, it actually changed the whole game of smartwatches, but with Watch Ultra 2, all they did was bump up the brightness which was already high enough.
and give that DOUBLE TAP functionality, which is gonna be useless 99% of the time.

and for the remaining 1% when people might actually use it when their hands are busy, it can easily be done with Accessibility options already present.

It was such a disappointment.

I thought they might atleast add a camera or facial sensors, not for taking photos or videos but to scan stuff, like barcodes, qr codes.

Here in India you can pay using scanning qr codes, it would be such a nice feature to have, even a 2mp or a VGA camera would have sufficed the need.

and if not facial recpgnition, maybe an under display UltraSonic fingerprint scanner.

but nope, just the brightness bump is all we get.
I mean... someone had to say it...
The only reason I would ever want the Ultra is because of the larger screen. I still find the 45mm screen too small. I have large fingers. If Apple made a Apple Watch Series ? Plus that was just a larger screen and not much more than the 45mm I would get that.
OH GOD ITS GOT NO HAIR
I have the ultra 2
casio a168 clears
could have just edited the ultra1 video
Cool as a cucumber 👍
Remembers kids, before you play your fingers 🤏 to play music 🎵, choose where it will play
Otherwise awkward cricket sound 🦗 with new expensive watch
WTF? NICK LIGHT IS STILL ALIVE???!??!
Isnt it this guy who accidentally auctioned off the water block thingie?
Oh shit red flannel, bad news
Why would you not buy the version two if you haven't got the Ultra to begin with? second hand no option (I think using the band second hand is nasty, zo sets you back 99 dollar to buy a new band). and just a little discount would not cut it for me, than I would just buy the version two
Your strap is too small, you should’ve went with Large, the Hook/Velcro should be on the side not underneath…
Why is this a month late.
Cool but too expensive !
$1000?!?  You are out of your GD mind apple
The most premium unboxing? 😂 😂 People are super out of touch
In a similar fashion, would it be okay to say "The Bald got Bald-er!"?
Damn… I feel almost as depressed after watching this video as the presentor was with the new Apple Watch. Wonder why he even wears it
jesus christ, didnt the Ultra 1 JUST come out???? wtf
Egg!
this guy looks like Radal
Weight of these things doesn't really matter at all. My watch with the strap on weighs like 185 grams.
wow
Where’s the body composition sensors, like Samsung has on their watches… was really hoping, Apple would add them, this generation 😅
Would have been a perfect feature, to have on the Ultra… and would of made “Ultra”, right now it’s just a mediocre upgrade, over last gen Ultra 😒
AYY! New guy. 😎
I appreciate that Nick seems to be more level headed than, let’s say… other presenters. The fact that he had some reasonable theories on why the watch 2 Siri test didn’t perform as well as watch 1 at first speaks volumes. 

*slams beer tankard on the table* 

ANOTHER ONE!
Why am I hungry for eggs?
Why does his head look like an egg 😂…mother had strong thighs
For what ? You are not even the type of person this watch is made for ! Stating facts !
What am I missing? He said it's $1,000 / $1,500 but apple website is $800 -- USD
Im definitely not the target for a smart watch, but I can see its usefulness
Yet it's beyond my comprehension how someone would spend 800 bucks on a smart wtch that is basically useless without the 900-1000$ iphone
Wooooo
I'm already not an Apple fan but the ultra 2 seems completly useless if you already have the ultra 1..They seem 99,9% identital in every way :S Even the price ! The ultra 2 is worth about 100-150$ for what ? :P
Today, everyone wears a smartwatch because they want or need to stay connected constantly. I value not being bothered by electronics. Today, the people who don't use this kind of tech are the poor who can't afford it and the wealthy who can afford NOT to be tethered to other people.
For a company that lorded themselves as the “we removed the chargers from the box, so we could ship more phones per shipment… saving us money and passing non of them savings to the customer, and getting to charge the customer for a charger”… “cough, I mean be environmentally friendly 😉”.
I’d love to see what BS excuse they use now, for making the Ultra packaging 4 times bigger… than the old Apple Watch boxes and including spam marketing booklets, all while still not including a charger 😅😡

You think they’d cut the BS about them loving the environment and just be honest… because they obviously ain’t doing nothing for the environment, it’s all just about what makes them more money 😒
Ultra watches are overpriced but so is everything else on its level, my ultra has been very durable after 8 months constant use only taking off just long enough to charge every other day, use all features outdoors doing lawn working around house getting healthier exercise, even ocean swimming only issue bands get stuck if not washed in “warm water” for 10-15min working mechanism thoroughly after each use, do wish it could read full news articles, watch youtube, listen to audio on watch
Western chinese egg man?


JK ❤
farting makes me happy
Thats an egghead
YO DAWG THOSE ARE SOME NICE EARS YOU HAVE I LOVE THEM.
I hate how inaccurate and smug this video is. Not showing the actual unboxing experience with the outer box with the art, saying it’s $1000 at one point, saying it’s $1500 at another point. Dude, the watch is $799. It’s only $100 more than the stainless steel. It’s a tank of a watch that gets extremely bright and is great for active lifestyles. Just chill.
Canadian Plaid
Why make all your packaging paper if you are wasting energy to include an unnecessary book. Why cant your iPhone go through those points on screen?
Dr egg man
Unless the battery lasts 20+ days as on my Garmin Fenix, Apple watches are not worth my time and money.
the price and battery life are just a no no. Luckily I don´t own an apple watch so I don´t even have to consider buying this.
Yes another unboxing that is misleading. Aka the flashlight....Full of errors. Just like before the "break".
bro
$1500? I’m sorry, what?
I don’t understand the “unboxing” thing. Use the watch for a week and then tell me what you think.
Now I know Nick's a mommy jean
Go to 3:37 for a quick recap of this episode.
You could NOT twist my nips hard enough to get me to buy that watch. Harrd pass.
why he loose hair
..happy to see otherwise, but maybe I'm the only one who still has a sour taste of Nick since the apology video. Adding a ltt store plug in the middle of serious allegations. And to reply as the whole community did, the they didn't "have to" add it, to stay on brand.
Once again LMG shows that they lack the ability to properly fact check Apple content
Probably not first
This review is like watching a potato. The look, the voice, the energy.... issa potato...
2023 and i don't have anything that can/needs wirelles charging so idk what this bald guy is saying 4:00
nice nick fantano review!
😂👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍
please get someone who actually knows about the stuff they're talking about
who he?
people pay 100k for watches.
Who?
h I might not have this stand but I do have hair
Apple produkter pric is a biggest joke 😅😅
I'll only buy the flannel if Sara comes with it
Egg
Annoying, daft habit people have:

Saying _”Obviously”_ ALL the time. 

If something is obvious, one doesn’t state it.
Egg.
why would you buy this
I made it halfway.
Nick is fine, and speaking only as a pretty firm 'Im done with Apple anything' kinda guy ... and how with that said,  I often might make it thru an iphone unboxing on LTT or Airpods or whatever,  a watch is soo far from anything I would ever buy, even if I was an Apple fan boy ... so I yawned large and got bored.
conehead
While an unboxing can be fun, I forget about it about 1 week after opening whatever it is and no matter how good it is,  it never factors into my next purchase.

This unboxing looks meh tbh.

As a sports/cyclist/exercise enthusiast, Garmin still makes the best stuff. Been proven more accurate than Apples metrics as well.
Egg
Egg
bald
Eg
Why are you bald
Yeah the watch also got uglier.. Apple has no clue on how to make good looking watches. Looks bulky and hideous.
I wonder how long it will last before it magically stops lasting a full day on a full charge... I'm speaking from experience.
I purchased one of these.  Awful product, not worth $5.  Do not buy this POS.
Even cringier product.
You paid over $1000 for an Apple Watch? You already lost all credibility.
Most boring apple product this year. Why did you make this vid at all lol
Holy shit! Humpty Dumpty fell off a wall and became a tech reviewer!
1.Title: Now’s a Great Time to Save on Wirecutter-Approved Apple Gear—Including Deals on Apple Watches and iPads
Description: Apple picking season is usually in the fall—unless you’re looking to pick up some great deals on the latest and greatest Apple tech. With impressive sales on smartwatches like the coveted Apple Watch Ultra and the Apple Watch Series 8, as well as ...
Content: Apple picking season is usually in the fall—unless you’re looking to pick up some great deals on the latest and greatest Apple tech. With impressive sales on smartwatches like the coveted Apple Watch Ultra and the Apple Watch Series 8, as well as our long-standing top MacBook pick, the harvest is certainly bountiful.

1.Title: Apple’s iPhone 15 Event Recap: New Phones, New Watches, and USB-C
Description: Apple’s annual fall product-launch event brought few surprises but still delivered big news: The company unveiled four iPhone 15 models—which trade in Apple’s proprietary Lightning charging port in favor of USB-C—two new Apple Watches, and a fresh...
Content: Apple’s annual fall product-launch event brought few surprises but still delivered big news: The company unveiled four iPhone 15 models—which trade in Apple’s proprietary Lightning charging port in favor of USB-C—two new Apple Watches, and a fresh AirPods Pro pair that also moves to USB-C. Here’s everything that Apple announced at its Wonderlust event. iPhone...

1.Title: Apple Says It Will Remove a Health Feature From New Apple Watches
Description: Starting on Thursday, the Apple Watch Series 9 and Watch Ultra 2 will no longer detect people’s blood oxygen levels, to comply with a ruling by the International Trade Commission.
Content: Apple said on Wednesday that it would begin selling its flagship smartwatches without the ability to detect people’s blood-oxygen levels.