This watch has an absolutely enormous pull for me as an astronomer. It has a red filter for the display, which is absolutely crucial for astronomy to protect night vision. My current Apple Watch, if I accidentally tilt my wrist, kills my night vision. However, the biggest reason is the waypoint markers. Often us astronomers need to travel far and to remote locations to find darker skies. My closest dark sky area is BEAUTIFUL, but has absolutely zero signal of any degree and can be pretty easy to get lost. Something like the waypoint markers (if accurate and reliable) would massively increase my confidence and enjoyment traveling to remote sites and further my enjoyment of astronomy.
As a person that works in construction, and also wears an Apple Watch every day while working I decided to upgrade from my series 5 to this. Will I ever use the marathon, the hiking or the diving features probably not. But the ruggedness, the battery life, the bright screen, and how big it is all speak to my needs. Keep up the good reviews MKBHD. 👍🏽
The reviews and the visuals to go along with them are always awesome. Appreciate Marques and the team
I really thought the Apple Watch was unnecessary at first but now after owning one I realized it is actually an extremely helpful and practical tool
You've missed out people who work in construction, like me!  A more rugged Apple Watch with a bigger battery is hugely useful to me, which is why I ordered one.
Those intros never feel bored.😍
Hats off to the MKBHD editors
One of the best features to me is the flat screen.  this makes it easy to put a protective glass on and not notice it.  The ability to dive with it is also a big feature for some of us.   I have now upgraded to cellular too.  The side button does get pressed quite easily tho.
Finally I became the use case for this watch! I am training for an ultra marathon and I did a 13mi trail run last weekend... I came home with my SE at 25% and realized it was time. This watch is truly leaps and bounds ahead. My wife also loves that I have many protection features if I get lost out on the trail. It's pricey but data for training is invaluable for me improving my runs so I don't really care. I can also bang it on anything and the watch will be the last thing to deny in any situation. Great buy, do recommend to the right folks.
It seems no matter how crazy a tech can be thrown at mkbhd, he’ll always gonna go back at it with a “pretty good”
As a longtime fan, I think the success of this channel lies in empathy: understanding that every product has a specific user in mind, and that different products make sense in different contexts for different people.
I like what you've been doing video presentations.  You are zeroing in the important questions and making it easier for the viewer to make a choice relevant to their personal situation and needs.  Thank you.
@MKBHD... regarding the option of having it in BLACK. It can be completely Anodized with "Type 2 anodizing" which build a thick oxidized layer on a very dark grey look into it, with the plus of adding "wear or scratch resistance". in my opinion to add this look actually would be pretty neat! but is up to apple to decide!
Those motion graphics were sick! Well done team, the video intro never disappoints.
The Apple Watch Ultra has a very specific target audience, it’s great if you’re a pro athlete, but someone like me who’d never need any of these features… still wants it.
I just bought one a couple days ago. And I love it. I’m not a diver or climber or anything like that, so most of the features don’t really apply to me, but I love how big it is. And it actually makes me want to get out and run/exercise. When the weather gets a bit warmer, I’ll definitely be using the watch to more of its capabilities
Very good review. I upgraded to the ultra from a 6 for the dive computer. We went on 9 dives with the oceanic App. You have to pay for the extra features of the app but it is very cool. It uploads everything to your phone. You can also add notes like visibility and marine life so you wouldn’t even need a log book anymore. I think 100% worth it for divers.
While I know I will never own this watch, I'll watch anything Marques makes. Always top tier content!
As an ultra runner and an alpinist I've been waiting for this watch for quite some time. I love my series 7 but would have to put it in "theater" mode to extend the life over my ultras and even then it would die soon after the end of the run.  I was about to order a Garmin when I got wind that Apple was making a watch for ultra athletes.  They knocked it out of the park for the ultra athlete with this watch.  For alpine settings we frequently get an "alpine start" when summiting a big mountain.  Start around midnight, and climb all night to try and catch the sunrise.  This extended battery life, red filter, and waypoints are perfect for big mountains.  The only thing missing (which i'm sure will make it in the future) is the emergency satellite communication that iPhone 14 has.
Just bought one. First Apple Watch in years. Always wanted something a little bit more rugged with more battery
Great and detailed review. Much appreciated! Thank you for taking the time to make it!
The production quality of your videos keep getting better and better. Love it.
Yo! Man, I just want to say how supremely impressive your videos are. You cover every logical angle and your production value is equally pro. Outstanding work sir.
always with excellent reviews, thanks.
Great review in describing the pros and cons, when it comes to the extra features the Apple Watch Ultra provides.

Well done.
Hearing Voices by 20syl come up and knowing that there will be an epic intro sequence is just so... You! Keep up the great work, Marques and co!
The quality of these videos are insane, I feel like I’m watching an apple showcase. You even go on a trail just to show one of the features. Insane dedication. Love u mkbhd
To show how good this video his

I was  watching, slept, woke up and continued for 5 hours. Bro I couldn't even close the YT app. Excellent production bro. Man you and your crew are too good.
The battery life on these are absolutely amazing for an apple product! 
Even if you aren’t an extreme athlete , it’s still great to have for just busy bodies always on the move.
I’m an endurance cyclist and I have both an Apple Watch for everyday use and a Garmin Fenix Solar for trainig and workouts. I would have loved the Apple Watch Ultra to replace the two devices for someone like me, but it’s missing a few key features: 1] ANT+ and BT LE Sensor Connectivity for things like my rear radar (Garmin Varia) unit or my power meter pedals.  2] Broadcast HR data to other devices like my computer when I’m doing indoor cycling on a turbo trainer (like while using ZWIFT) or to a head unit on my bike when I cycle outdoors. 3] More performance and training analytics like Garmin Connect does which helps guide your workouts and training sessions to gauge your weekend load. 4] A few more buttons in addition to the touchscreen like the Fenix/EPIX/Enduro since a constantly moving wrist makes it hard to use a touchscreen soley (not to mention sweaty or wet fingers).

This is a great first iteration for Apple to recruit someone like me full time to an Apple Watch, but with those four reasons above and a few more minor ones I’ll have to wait to see what Watch Ultra 2 brings to the table.
I am really interested in this watch because of the longer battery life, the compass and the red light filter. While I understand that battery life is pretty limited on the normal apple watch, I find that the compass app and the filter are things they definitely could add. 

I am not into any extreme sports though, so I cannot justify buying an apple watch ultra.
I am a pilot. I can see this thing being really useful for us. The red dial is really good for protecting your night vision, which is very important for night flying. The longer battery life would be really good for long-haul flights as well.
Tbh this was is appealing simply because of the battery increase. Personally, I’d take a slightly chunkier watch for an extra while day of battery any day. My main gripe with my Apple Watch (45mm series 7 aluminum) is that if I wear it all day and sleep with it, the next day it is almost dead, and I have to charge it before going about my day. The 2 day life would be amazing
As someone who dives recreational, it probably won't replace my dive computer, yet. I am excited to see the next generation on what it can possibly do though.
The current Pros I see:
-Automatically log your dives if you do electronic dive logs
-Share your dives with everyone else
-Perhaps gives you more tangible feedback if you're ascending or descending too quickly, like bigger vibrations. Sometimes hearing the beeps in the ocean is quite hard

What I hope it can do in the future:
-GPS tracking of all of your dive buddies and group (if they wear the Ultra or some water-proof AirTag. There were moments where I dove with only 1m of visibility, so it can be hard to track anyone down there. If they had a radar display or an arrow that points where your dive buddy is and how far, that'll be neat).
Nice review. Upgrading my 6 Edition to this mainly for that L1 + L5 GPS tech. As an avid runner, I always felt Apple Watch was behind the Garmins etc. in distance/pace tracking but obviously exceeded those running-specific watches in daily livability. Looking forward to workouts with this thing.
My series 4 watch battery 🪫 dies pretty quick now, if  I dont charge it one night it’s pretty much dead the next day which it sucks whenever I go camping for the weekend I have to bring my charger for it as well, plus the bigger screen definitely looks nice
I am willing to bet you could use the Apple Watch as a complete dive computer replacement with Tank PSI integration. There are a bunch of wireless dive computers already. A developer or Dive gear company would just have to make a tank pressure transmitter that would communicate wirelessly with the Apple Watch Ultra. That would actually be incredibly cool and at $799 a rather inexpensive dive computer.
The quality of editing in these videos improves every single time, and with such little time between each one!
There are several things I love about this watch, Thanks for the review your perspective is always valuable as a tool for tech purchases I'm considering.  I'm upgrading from a series 5 to the Ultra.
Just got the watch today so watching this has been a great help, many thanks
Excellent video . And great explanation of everything. I work outside as well and the durability ruggedness upgrades makes it worth buying and upgrading from my series 5 to this one in the near future.
I have a series 5 and was looking to finally upgrade this generation, but had no idea there was an Ultra in the works. The main reason I preordered it instead of the series 8 is for the longer battery life and how rugged it is. I was looking at Garmin too for their super long battery life, but I like the LTE with the Apple Watch as that is only available like on one Garmin model.
Hey Marques, if you're really after making it black, check out DLC (diamond-like coating). Uses a carbon coating with a Rockwell hardness above that of common metals to provide a scratch-resistant coating. Extremely popular for folding knives and EDC gear.
Just discovering your channel, really nice review here. Also a former Ultimate player. Ankles and knees can't handle it anymore though. I miss those days. Plenty of rockstar moments, full field throws, and behind the back arcs into end zones. Much love.
It’s all up to each person to determine wether the purchase of this watch is worth it to them. In my opinion it’s bigger, has a few more features, longer battery, more durable, and I think I was looking for something more that stood out. To me my current Apple Watch will suffice until something truly unique to me stands out and I cannot justify spending $800 on this watch when my significant other purchased one for about $500 for me as a Christmas present not even two years ago. Excellent review btw, I found this helpful.
Before I purchased my series 7 graphite I tried a garmin. For me, Apple hit a sweet spot. I was already ready to pay this premium and I wanted something more rugged and had a longer battery. I’m hoping it arrives before this camping trip this weekend. 🙏🏽 keeping my series 7 for other occasions. Apple knew exactly what to give us and leave us wanting more. It’s “another” Apple Watch.
Yet another in a long line of fantastic videos. I honestly don’t think I buy anything before checking your channel first. Lee em coming - oh and dope catch!
I kind of want an ultra but it seems so bulky. I currently have a 7 and the main reason I would upgrade to an ultra is the battery life and it does look cool. It’ll sure this is hella overkill for me though 😂, might just wait to see if they release a new watch this year and go with that
I just received the new ultra and the size is not a surprise from a 45mm.  I like the overall look, but the battery is what I'm waiting to see if it's going to do it for me. I can't wait for that software update that is suppose to add more battery life as well.  The durability is what got me looking at this one as well.  I banged up my series 7 the glass around the curve was always taking hits.  I like the flat top with the protective rim of the ultra. It feels heavier to me than a 45mm.  When I put it on I was like .... ok I thought the weight was not a thing, but it is noticeable.
It's certainly an impressive watch, but I think most people will get it purely for the battery and increased screen brightness. Hopefully this trickles down to the regular watches in the future...
Thanks for the review! You’ve just convinced me to get on if I get some good news soon.
Got mine earlier today, quite liking it, not as big as I was expecting, but I do worry about that sapphire Crystal, it’s so damn thin, my other watches with sapphire crystals feel really solid (anywhere from 3.5mm-4mm thick),not certain of the specs for the Apple Watch Crystal but just by the flex and the feel of it, I doubt it’s more than 1.5mm thick, this thing is going to shatter really freaking easily!
MKBHD videos always have this professional feel to them. Other tech youtubers, even ones I like such as LTT, feel mass produced, but each of MKBHD and The Studio videos feel focused and like they have an extremely high production value. Anytime I click on a video from this team I know I am always going to get an enjoyable, visually appealing video with little to no bias towards a product. I love LTT but it’s clear Linus has some biases towards certain brands, Marques never gives off that vibe and it absolutely makes the video more enjoyable. I don’t feel like I’m being told that I need to buy the product he’s showcasing
The production of Marques’ videos are just excellent. This isn’t related to the topic, but thank you for your dedication to making your subscribers such wonderful content Marques
Really great revuew, Bought watch, based on this review (and my wife's insistence).  Thank you. Been a long time since I saw one of your reviews but you rock. Thank you!
I ve got one for my husband as a birthday gift . He is not adventurous hiker or scuba diver the reason why i got this that he LOVED the design . He had been going to apple store and put the watch on Lol. He is very happy now . I hope he ll use it for hiking or any activities. 😅
Apple has really upped their game with this watch, I am impressed! However, I am an avid Garmin Fenix 7x user and previous 6x owner. I know the Ultra should be compared to the Epix 2, based on battery life and screen, but I opted for the bigger and better for longevity. I think Apple is on the right track if their goal is to keep/gain even the extreme adventurer interested. I must say I am really digging the look of this Ultra and would love to see where they go with it. There are some small features on the Ultra I wish would be on the Fenix, but it goes both ways. 

Even though the Fenix 7x is a little overkill for my uses, it still brings an app that is as capable on Android as it is on iOS. It's not an amoled screen, but its still touch capable and the reflective display is super readable in sunlight and adds to the overall 28 day average batter life. Fenix 7x is a watch I know I can also make last 5 years minimum, with features that will be as strong then as they are now.
From a diving perspective, once it can measure all the aspects needed for diving and replace my dive computer, I’m much more interested. It shouldn’t be too hard to do considering my current high pressure monitor is wireless.
This was one of, if not, the best review of a piece of tech I’ve seen. Can’t believe how far he’s come. Incredible video man!
Thanks for the great review as always very detailed and hit the points especially on battery life. Such a nice upgrade to the normal Apple Watches that are dead every day with moderate daily exercise.
Marques, I think you hit the nail on the head with your explanation. I recently completed a half Ironman and my Apple Watch died with 4 miles left on the run. Also, the new button to press transitioning from each portion of the race would be way easier than having to end the workout and start a new one with wet/sweaty fingers.
I have a lot of 20syl and AllttA music in my playlist, and I always get excited when I hear one of their tracks in these videos 🔥
Your reviews are the absolute best! I know that your opinion just really is based on facts
I have one of these Ultra watches and I completely agree with this video. It’s capabilities are definitely over kill for me. I would have been fine with the regular Iwatch. I hit the gym often and it is nice that it tracks everything for me but I don’t plan on hiking up a mountain, or diving in the ocean.
I’m a watch enthusiast and a marathon runner. So the industrial design, the long battery and the running screen with all the info on at once tip the balance for me. Will wear it for the London marathon on October 2nd and see how it goes!
I’m definitely going to be picking this one up solely for the more durable build. I’ll use some of the new features as well but the larger beefier case by itself makes it worth it to me. Also as a side note, digging the use of the Peter McKinnon puzzle box in the pic 😏
what a great review, just perfect!
I love your channel. Keep up the good work!
Keep up the great reviews. Yours are excellent 👍🏻 😀
The opening animation could be easily mistaken for an Apple Watch Ultra ads, such amazing quality!
This is the first smart watch that has gotten my attention.  I do wear a number of automatic watches and I'm a big G-Shock fan as well, all of which I own are solar.  Both of these don't rely on replacing batteries and that's something that sticks out for a number of watch people.  Unfortunately I think the only two things that will keep me from buying it is that I can't get a Bluetooth/Wifi only model and it's still largely a novelty because my career does not allow me to use it while working.  It is very cool though.  I just can't see paying for cellular service for a watch and there would never be a time that I could be wearing this watch that I don't also have my iPhone on me.
Very impressed woth the battery.  Took it off it’s charger on Thursday morning used it as normal. Didn’t ever engage low power mode.  Sunday morning still on 15%.  Not bad !
MKBHD always gets my head out of the clouds and pulls me back into reality when I get too excited about a new piece of tech! 😁
I have the series 4 and used it everyday including sleep tracking, and yes, I have to charge it as soon as I get home from work and when I wake up. The new low power mode makes it last a lot longer which is a bonus, especially since the battery health is at 83% now.

This new Apple Watch Ultra battery is amazing, but also heaps more expensive. I think Apple should improve the battery life for the regular Apple Watch, it would make it more attractive.
As a technical diver, this piece of tech has me intrigued. It certainly won't be replacing any dedicated dive computer, but I could see myself using this as a backup for dives under 40 meters.
Excellent review!  I've been a Google Pixel fan boy for many years, but I absolutely love this watch. I don't have the biggest wrists and I'm not a big fan of IOS but this watch has me thinking.
Casio Pro Trek is my tried and true watch ! Currently I have my Apple Watch 7, which is my fitness & daily driver ; and the Timex expedition, which charges via solar ( but no gps or receivers) and use when I’m at work, rugged outdoors or even diving. For me it boils down to , how much tech do I need for the moment . I’m excited to eventually get the Ultra and test it myself… Still got to keep my Casio though, it’s been through ALOT and still works .
As an avid hiker and fitness enthusiast I was drawn to the Ultra.  While the battery life is a key feature for me, it’s the ruggedness and lightweight body sold it for me.  I didn’t preorder at launch as I wanted to try it out and see how it looked.  It’s a big watch and I have skinny wrists but I didn’t find it to be “too” big.  It arrives in two days…so excited!
I just bought the Ultra 2, but not for any of the athlete stuff or anything, but for the larger more usable screen, battery and for the more premium looking design that separates the watch from the other standard ones.
its also titanium as the normal watches are aluminium some people cant handle the aluminium cases..... so its on one side nice theres now an option for those people but  its sad it costs 800 bucks
I decided to charge my ultra and run it till the battery was dead. I performed my normal use, a few phone calls. Texting, daily work outs and kept on normal power mode and always on display. I got exactly 54 hours and 10 minutes. Big improvement!!!
I'm very interested to see how well the battery holds up long term, my Series 4 apple watch barely lasts a full day now but when I got it, it would last a day and a half with my usage. Great video Marques!
Great review! I really appreciate how in-depth you have gone. It helped me to feel confident in my purchase decision. Thank you!
Dope review as always. Glad I watched this. I was ready to purchase it at Costco today. In fact I already ordered a metal band for it. Oops. I felt I needed to do a little more research before pulling the trigger. So glad I did. Turns out the Ultra would be overkill for me. Going to pickup the 8 instead. Thanks MKBHD!
20syl and MKBHD is Always Gonna be the Best Intro for sure!
I’ve been using the Ultra with work currently for the past 2 days. The size is nothing to me since I am accustomed to dive watches. I was shocked how light it is. In the past 48 hours the watch currently sits at 48%. I check my watch on occasion checking in with physicians I work with, utilizing the timer for 10 hrs a day when I work as a phlebotomist on site and texting. I suspect I will be charging this on the 3rd day but the screen size makes visualizing all text easier on the eyes. I am hiking this weekend and I am very excited to utilize the wayfinder and backtracking. I will be traveling to surf spots in a couple of months and indulged in diving soon that’ll be fun to explore. I am not an extreme athlete but the new features and the price point being cheaper then the ceramic watches a few years. I’m happy!
Apple needs to sign you. Or somebody, ur soooo good with content and delivery along with the picture. You Keep my attention, and your voice is soothing.😂❤
Just ordered mine before the review haha thank God it’s a good review 😅
Middle of nowhere, LOVE it! Gotta say that the sketch was perfect and clearly shows who this Apple Watch Ultra is built for. Off to listen to the podcast since I wanted to know exactly what you brought them in for. What do the experts in their respective fields think and even if the scuba support has zero relevance to most of us that doesn’t mean it’s not a valid design element.
Honestly mainly interested in this for the battery life. Especially with the sleep tracking being updated so much right before this release I feel like something that lasts this long is the only way to get accurate info on that and the ruggedness as well I use my current Apple Watch to track and it’s definitely got some battle scars
I bought this specifically to get on the trail more often. I pay about $1.12 per day for payments to help encourage me to get out the door. So far it has worked. I do 1 hour plus treks with a weighted back on and try to do 15 min/miles including hills and rough terrain with  my pack on. This is definitely a more military friendly watch.
That intro is the ultimate flex 💪 the production value of this channel is INSANE
My two cents as someone who is into watches (specifically mechanical watches):
-This seems to be Apple's equivalent of a "field watch"; it's not specialized in any specific task but overall is rugged and can take a beating
-100 meters of water resistance actually isn't super impressive for a dive watch. Most dive watches are rated to at least 200 meters.
-Apple seems to be borrowing a marketing tactic from the rest of the watch industry by endorsing real athletes and professionals so that buyers can feel a little bit closer to their heroes (Rolex with Jaques Cousteau, Tag Heuer and Richard Mille in racing, Omega and the moon landing, etc.)
Being a pilot I was super excited when I saw this watch. With the altimeter, compass, gps, emergency features, and the red night mode for night flights, this watch brings so much to aviation that the normal Apple Watch doesn’t have. However, knowing what Garmin does for aviation watches I was a little disappointed they didn’t have an angle for flying. Garmin gives you weather updates (METAR) and knows what airport you are at based on its identifier (KSBA). Apple could have worked a little harder to make this an aviation watch and it would be the most complete watch ever. All around though  this watch looks still extremely useful for aviation and I will most likely be upgrading to it.
Really enjoyed your review!
I've been wearing my Apple watch series 3 for the past 4ish years and it still receives updates and works excellent. The only thing on it which is starting to dwindle in power is the battery. Even still, it lasts about 1.5 days. I've been thinking about updating soon as I just recently also bought an iPhone 14 pro. I'm also going to be purchasing the newest M2 MacBook for college, so I might update/upgrade my watch while I'm at it.
Been looking for a reason to upgrade from the series 4 but it’s still fine for my needs
Great review, as always, Marques. Only thing I'd emphasize more is the incredible improvement in sound quality for anybody considering leaving their iPhone at home, occasionally, and relying on the "Ultra" as a standalone phone. With my Watch 7 -- tooling along in a Jeep with mud-terrain tires -- there was no way to keep hands positioned on steering wheel and hear what the person on the other end of the line was saying. Now, for me, that's totally doable. The "Ultra" is advertised as "40% louder," but it seems twice as loud a previous Apple Watches.
Your intros and presentation are the reason why you’re the 🐐
My second Apple Watch and I love it, the first one I took back as I hated it but this one I love.if anybody is worried about how big it might be it really isn’t that big in fact my first impression was that it was way smaller than I expected
The Ultra looks good, but there are some things I am still concerned about. The touchscreen of my current Applewatch becomes intermittently unresponsive when wet. As a swimmer/triathalete it is very frustrating. The option to use touch or buttons on the Garmin 955 is appealing. Additionally, I like the ability of the Garmin to show me structured workouts either from Garmin Connect,Training Peaks, or HumanGo.
I have a Garmin tactix delta. So I use my watch a lot more for the outdoor capabilities. I love it. I had 3 other Apple Watches and just not impressed. Soon I heard this was coming out, it definitely got my attention. Went to the store to try it in. Fell in love with it. Definitely can’t wait to try this watch out. The features seem way better. Especially when I ride my motorcycle.I like how ican see and talk into it.
As someone who purchased their first apple watch series 8, I have been loving it so much, and dont see a need to upgrade anytime soon, until it breaks. Very much looking forward to see to future of apple watch.
I just bought mine today, and I just bought it for the look, I probably won’t ever use the features, but I love how big it is and how tough it is, and they alpine band is nice
Curious on what your settings are to get that kind of battery life.  That’s well beyond Apple’s claim of 36 hours which is what I typically get.
I honestly have to say that I'm EXCITED for mine to come on Friday! Even though I'm not an extreme outdoors athlete or trainer, I DO go walking/hiking almost every day and find that the improved battery life of the Ultra, with its extended battery life mode coming later this year, to be enough of a reason to upgrade! Also, as Marques put it, this is basically a "pro" model that offers features that more avid/hardcore users of the Apple Watch can appreciate all of the new upgraded hardware features of! Too bad that there isn't a slightly better processor than the Series 8 or SE 2 built in, but, hey, for the first time EVER in the Apple Watch's 7-year history, this "Edition" actually has more going for it for the price than just the outer casing, which, when compared to the Series 7 Edition, is THAT much more of a bargain for the price! I'll be doing my own first impressions/unboxing when I get mine Friday, but I already know that, barring some major unforeseen flaw or regret, I plan to keep this until at least next year, when we see if/how Apple evolves this new line of Apple Watch!
You do some of the best reviews for Apple on the internet! I would you are #1 by far! 🙏 for doing what you do and speaking so we can understand you! 🫡 from a retired Navy Vet living in 🇬🇷🙌🏼🤛🏼👏🏼💪🏼 thank you brother!
Love your reviews. Honest and very helpful
I've been into big watches before my Apple watch and actually was missing the large size. Most attractive for me is the extra battery life. I constantly get pinged with work messages and battery doesn't last 16 hours sometimes. So I'm looking forward to this.
The most compelling part, for me, is that it’s not really much more expensive for all you get extra. A stainless Apple Watch with their version of a sapphire crystal is already in that territory. You might as well get the one that does it all unless the size is just a no go. Giant watches are still popular, so it’s not as striking as you might think, but natural titanium’s finish is kind of more ‘rugged’ looking than classy on a watch. Titanium should anodize well, but the colors don’t pop the same way they do on aluminum.

I keep looking for a reason to grab a smart watch, but… still waiting for a key feature like a glucose monitor or something. They’ve made it an interesting device, but there’s nothing on it I absolutely need. For this much money and considering it’s outdated in two-three years, it’s just still more of a luxury than a real necessity and I love tech.
I grabbed it to test against my Garmin dive board / nab board. First HAHO jump in Yuma was flawless really impressed.
As a mountain biker this is the first Apple Watch that appeals to me because it's finally rugged enough to withstand a real crash. Some of the nav and fitness features still don't measure up to the higher end Garmins etc., but the one thing that really makes the Apple Watch stand out is the ability to talk and text without being tethered to a phone. To be able to set out into the wilderness without carrying a bulky phone, but still be connected, is something that still isn't offered by Garmin, but previous Apple Watches gave up too many other features to be justifiable for a true outdoor enthusiast. And at $800 it's still cheaper than a Garmin Fenix 7.
Even as a non Apple user the watch looks very impressive.  Great features and a LOVELY screen.  Shame you cannot use standard watch straps like you can with some other smart watches.
I have the series 5 and have no issues with it…except for battery life. Despite the price, I will be getting the ultra exclusively for the battery. The waypoint feature will be fun for geocaching, but realistically I do that twice a year maybe. Battery life is critical for me, though.
Phenomenal review, man!!
Thank you for the clarity.
That has to be one of the best intros from any competing tech Youtuber that I have seen so far. Incredible work from the MKBHD team. 👌
A year ago, I had zero interest in smartwatches; I was only into wearing "dive" or "tool" watches. Then, a friend gave me an old Apple watch series 2 that I started wearing only for workouts and then more often. I'll admit it grew on me quickly, and now I have a series 7 that I love. I'll definitely be getting an Ultra at some point.
I have had mine for only a week and I love it. Looks beautiful, the brightness is INSANE, Little bulky at first but you get use to it since the watch is so light. The watch is very responsive compared to the 5 I upgraded from. It’s a major upgrade from that far back. Battery is going on day 3 now with minimal use. Can’t wait to start messing with the diving and hiking aspects when it’s nicer out
Your production quality always amazes me
Technical Diver here. The Apple Watch Ultra will hopefully introduce millions of people to scuba diving, and on paper seems to be a good "dive computer" for new and those who dive very infrequently, but although it seems like this could be a good option for serious hikers and triathletes, etc., it's definitely not the case for serious divers. We are eagerly waiting for our units to test them and provide an unbiased review from the diver perspective because - again, on paper - the "scuba diving capabilities" of this watch fall short from even the most basic dive computers on the market. Stay tuned.
As a frequent diver, the watch does have an immediate appeal (seeing it does what my normal dive watch does plus more). But I think I'd have to wait for the product to stay out long enough so that big dive agencies like NAUI may actually test the watch and deem if it’s safe or a good investment. Its still quite a bit of money, but at least if it works you’re getting a dive watch that can do other things than be a dive watch
Dope editing!
Dope intro as always❤
I've got a dive computer (RRP £700) it's a huge display but I only use it when I'm diving. This watch might be interesting to use for recreational diving. (I am not switching as my computer is synced with my air Integrated system) and I got my computer for half that price
As a storm spotter, and storm chaser this would be essential durability waterproof, red mode. Crash detection, fall detection, emergency SOS, This would be amazing to have with me every day!
It’s really cool to see how your membership has grown. I remember you when you started. Good for you kid.
My first apple watch and i went for this ultra watch- im not a hiker or a swimmer but i just had to get it for its size- and i have a small wrist- i love it 😊
I wasn't going to get this, but with it priced the same as the stainless steel I just might. But definitely need to see/put it on in person to see how it feels. Great video as always!
At this point, I mainly watch MKBHD videos to see how they are going to up their editing game! The product info is just icing on top.
I’ve hesitated to buy an Apple Watch mainly because of how frequently the prior versions need to be charged. What’s the point of sleep tracking if I have to charge the phone while I’m sleeping because it’s dead or dying from day use? This seems to fix that issue. I feel like this watch is meant to compete with the Garmin Fenix. Good looking watch.

The way finder is great so long as you’re not lost in the middle of know where for more than two days.

I have a simple Fitbit inspire 2 HR that tracks my workouts, sleep, HR and I charge it every two weeks. Works for me
Thank you for the great presentation! 👍
Very impressive. The fact it went 2 nights doing sleep tracking is even more. I would expect it to last that long without sleep tracking and just being idle at night but the fact it was actually doing something over night is that much more impressive
That battery life is UNBELIEVABLE!!! I play football and basketball and the way you used your Apple Watch is exactly how I would as  a weekend sports watch. AMAZING!!!
What brand is the solid (no holes) sport band you have on in parts of the video?  Thanks for the great content .
OMG that intro, nailed it... wow
I haven’t had an Apple Watch since the series 1 and that had a bad battery. I ordered this one because I like having the top end model. The battery and size also sold me.
Man, you are really an excellent reviewer - it’s rare someone can hold my attention for 15mins on anything here on YouTube. Already ordered the watch by the way….wonder if there’s a couch potato app coming anytime soon…
Love your videos dude!
Such a solid review.  Thank you!
My issue with Apple Watch series 7 cellular is battery life, if you dont want to bring your phone somewhere for a few hours and you’re taking calls, streaming music, etc, I’m not always getting to the end of the day on a single charge. And I think releasing yourself from your phone and only using the watch on cellular is the huge selling point of even having the watch.
These intros are absolutely amazing! And it's even cooler now that I know how much effort is put into these from watching your studio channel!
This was a helpful video, thanks.
I love the design of this watch. It looks stylish and stunning
CAN WE ALL JUST TAKE A SECOND TO APPRECIATE HOW SICK THAT DIVE CATCH @ 13:05 WAS!!! Bravo Marques 👏🏼
As someone who’s into diving (AAUS Scientific diving) I’m intrigued. Given what I know about Apple Watches and battery life I feel like I’m veryyyyy skeptical 😅 I’m assuming most divers will have a backup whether it’s another watch or computer built in next to the pressure gauge. I can’t wait to see how it performs!
I’ve always complained about the size of apple watches as a bigger guy so Ty for this apple. Smaller watches just don’t look right on my wrist. This one feels so much more natural on me.
Thanks a lot for the info!
Great review! 
As a mountaineer I can say that the more accurate GPS will be the most important feature. I came into life threatening situations just cause my GPS was off by a few meters.
The backtracking feature will be very useful as well. 
Looks like a great watch :)
Thank you, Marques, for your well reasoned review. Truth is, I seldom wear ANY watch, and don’t own an Apple Watch, … but being an old outdoor person and a tech geek, that does not mean I am not trying to rationalize owning the Ultra.
Excellent review!
Marq another great review. I’m one of the outliers. I love the titanium and the orange band was cool. But in the end $800 for something I really don’t need. Like you I have a Casio MTG-M900DA and it keeps perfect time, solar powered. Takes a licked and keeps on ticking and cost me $120.
As an ultra distance cyclist the regular apple watch really didn‘t do it. But now the Watch Ultra is more expensive than my bike and therefore doesn‘t do it either😅.
I ride frequently and often about 60-100 daily miles, sometime for a week or so.  I like to use strava on my watch to record the route and health metrics and I’ll get just about a full day on my series 6 after a day of gps tracking.
I ordered the ultra as I didn’t want the pressure to have to always charge it everyday or dying on me at the end of the day. I’ll probably keep the series 6 for days when I need something more stealthy.
would have liked to see the battery life compared to other /smart/ watches. i don’t think anyone expects them to be even remotely comparable to regular watches haha
this watch is almost a must for me, i work in a refinery where the aluminum watches could melt if any caustic gets on me for any reason and the ruggedness is a real big plus aswell
That intro by 20syl makes me feel nostalgic
I also feel this is starting to swing in the Garmin type sector. Like how you said in the video, most people have Garmins that are huge and accurate in their tracking. But it’s also jammed packed with sensors and features to accommodate as well as the price range
Would this watch be good for blue collar people? I don’t want the regular watch because it seems breakable, but this one seems a little bulky, but reliable
Great review!!! Thank you 🙏🏽
I'm still sticking with my Suunto. I use it for all my outdoor activities including frisbee. I prefer it since when I'm on my bike/backpacking trips for several days at a time the GPS tracking just lasts so much longer. I do think Apple made a solid and rugged watch, I just think we'll really see the Ultra shine in 2-3 more iterations.

I think it'll just take me a bit before I lean on Apple for off the grid activities.
Had every Apple Watch since original. Upgraded from 7 to 8 then watched reviews of Ultra including yours which I very much enjoyed. After wanted an Ultra but Apple showed delivery a month out and Verizon in December. Best Buy site stated delivery in two days so I said OK and ordered one. Sure enough would have gotten in two days but delay with UPS which hardly ever happens got it in three days. Not had it a week yet and have about another week and a half to return it. I really like it but go back and forth whether to keep or return. I like the bigger size and then I don’t like the bigger size. I like the bright screen then I don’t like the brighter screen. I like the design but then I don’t like the design. This is all compared to my 8 but then I do like the fact it is tough and I don’t have to worry about damaging it. I do not like the fact that I accidentally bought one with the small Alpine Loop band and Best Buy said they can’t just swap band and would have to send watch and band back to get swapped or go to my local store an hour away which doesn’t have any in stock. Band works just hard to get on over my hand and I don’t have large wrists and medium size hands. There is a lot I like but is it worth $800. Probably will keep it but if I do will also probably keep the 8 for dress up times although I wear a suit for work everyday. As heck it’s just money. People would say to me you are crazy and even my wife who I love with all my heart even says so. But I don’t spend money on race cars, fishing boats, campers, motorcycles, etc. but my passion is tech stuff, iPhones, Apple Watches, home assistant devices, etc. and these are things I use everyday. Love your video. Thanks. Oh I do workout daily and love it for that.
My biggest issue is just the battery life. I don't need the extra features on the watch. But It was so infuriating with my Apple Watch 4 when I wanted to go for a 2 hour mountain bike ride, I realised I hadn't charged it during the night (because of sleep tracking) or morning (I forgot). The really short battery life really is a big issue because you're supposed to be wearing it 24/7 and you really need to plan on when you charge it daily.
As an Ironman triathlete, I’m super stoked to get my hands on this watch. Great review, I’d love to see the watch perform during a triathlon transition (T1/T2)
Just taking a guess but if they continue to drop upgrades for the Ultra, it leads me to believe they would come out with a PRO ULTRA or something like that with a little more to offer. This one is awesome though and a great price for what it offers imo.
I bought the Apple Watch ultra after watching the review while I was in the US and found out that I can’t use the cellular function whenI moved to Denmark. This is a huge disadvantage that you cannot use the watch in another region. When I called Apple and asked them to help me with replacing it they declined me. I think all users should be aware of this very important disadvantage.
I been debating on getting the ultra because I like the orange display at night and screen size and the orange band but I want to know what health features it has. I’ve never had an Apple Watch, the last thing is I feel like it’d be too much tech. I have an iPhone 11 Pro, my second iPhone ever and an iPod. Any suggestions for getting it?
Best analisys I ever saw. Awesome! Thaanks!
For it to be truly a standalone watch, I would like to see it have camera/recording.
for advanced divers, the apple watch ultra absolutely does not cut it (no air integration, tech, CCR, etc.). but for the casual, once in a while recreational diver, its kind of cool. nice to see apple is trying
I'm interested for backcountry skiing and sailing. I wish there was a start timer with the action button so I don't need to touch the screen to start stop and reset a 3 min timer. I've heard you can set it to shortcuts so that might work. Backcountry skiing I know it would be useful for waypoints but I do  bring a physical map and write out my route just in case even if I have a handheld garmin but those are expensive af and I usually borrow my friends. 

My biggest concern is it sticking out in everyday/formal use. Might keep my series 4 with a leather band around for that.
I’ve seen people with it and it’s made me want it. I don’t need it at all but I want it. It looked so cool being worn by anyone who I saw with it. I’ll probably buy one and keep my midnight Series 7 along side it.
every MKBHD intro is always so detailed, you can tell the editors had a lot of fun with making them.
Intro was litttttt🔥🔥🔥
Great review. When Apple adds the Pro name it is because of increased technology. The Ultra has increased technology and increased durability. So I agree with Apple's naming decision.
yours is by far the bast tech review channel!
The biggest thing that holds me back from this is how Apple tends to work, by debuting a look for one device you know on the back end similar devices will be following suit shortly after.  So do I need the Ultra for the larger flat screen or just wait one more year when the 9 debuts and likely has this look or something similar?  I've already made the personal decision that outside of the louder speakers and the action button everything else isn't a necessary for my daily use or lifestyle. It's a dope look either way but justifying the extra $200 didn't quite add up.  Great in depth look at things though, much appreciated.
Regarding the color, Garmin has a darker "DLC" coating for their Titanium. It legit prevents smaller scratches and is closer to "space gray."
So my issue is health monitoring and emergency help if needed. Can you tell whether there is a significant benefit in terms of health benefits between the 8 and the Ultra?
Thank you for the review. Very interesting!
Great video! I have to say I really like the naming for this, as the usual pro name doesn’t really mean anything at this point apart from having the top features, you are not actually a pro user. During this video you said extreme many times which I think can be easily replaced with the word ultra, it has a set of features for those who will actually take it to its limit
The Ultra gives me the thing I wanted/why went to Garmin – the action button. When running I wanted to start/stop with a physical button and not do multiple touch screen gestures. While I see this watch competing well with the top tier Garmin models out there, cheaper ones will still have their place
Love this videos !!! 🙏🏼
I just ordered the Apple Watch Ultra… because my series 3 finally broke after having it since 2017… I started holding on to Apple products as long as I could because they always have a new version that’s not exactly a different look. So, since my S3 broke and I’ve been about 1-2 months without a Apple Watch I have given in to the Ultra. I’m not an extreme hiker, or a diver but I am getting back into going to the gym (lifting cardio etc) more and working out more and going for runs and bike rides outside so I’m hoping this watch will yield the best results and benefits for me. Plus the bigger and brighter screen, longer battery life. Of course I hope I can dress it down and up but we’ll see.’ 

GREAT review btw!
I want to see these types of reviews a year into the usage of this watch. What does the battery time look like then. Are you recharging every day or did it still let you go two days?
Regarding a black version, Apple could make a DLC coating (Diamond-Like Coating) version, it is semi-common in the watch world and could probably be added as a $30 to $40 option for the watch. It is a resilient coating (one of the common uses is on engine parts) and would actually be a benefit to the ruggedness of the watch, as one of the disadvantages of Titanium in the watch world is that it scratches easier than Stainless Steel watches unless it is treated with a hardness coating.
Watched every review I could find on it realized I didn’t need it got it anyway and now I can’t live without it
I have an iwatch and I rarely wear it but when I do, all I use it for is to look at the time on it.
I work in construction style environment, so definitely looking forward to something more durable.

Gotta try it
A teammate of mine brought up a great point for us runners. Do we want a running/endurance watch with smart features, or a smart watch with running/endurance features. Many of us will still fall in that first category. 

My Garmin fenix 5 still has 7 days of battery despite being almost 5 years old.
Your daily 3-hour workouts impress more than the Apple Watch ultra 💪🏼 Thank for the review
Many thanks for the good video for the ultra watch
Hey Marques, was cellular active during your time using the apple watch? The battery life is impressive as is even just for activity tracking, but that would be even more insane if cellular was active as well. I'm often away from my phone while doing activities, so that's the most important thing for me.
I just needed a last word of advice before going bonkers with this Watch, and I just had it here. It's almost the same price as the steel one, have more features, less elegant, that's fo sho, but at the same time, I'm practically Sully from Monsters Inc. My hands are enormous, even to the point that the normal-size iPhone it's small to me, so yeah, definitely going Ultra this time. Thank you for your review, Marques!
ive watched a couple vids for this the se2 and the series 8 and tbh if its your first watch or you just need some key features and apps i would go with the se2
Respect for the new waterproofness rating. There is a massive difference between an IP78 rating and what a regular sports watch has with 10-30ATM.
Thanks for the review. I really enjoy your content.
Super stoked for mine! I surf and bodyboard but don't do the other "ultra" things, I just think it looks sick.
I find that battery quite important. Only reason I have been using Garmin is the battery life, actually.
I was looking at the prices and this is in a bit of a weird spot. If you want stainless steel + sapphire glass in 45mm+, it's either the stainless steel cellular series 8 or a tiny bit more and you can get the ultra with a larger screen and its features lol.

I wish the GPS only version wasn't only in aluminium options. Having another cell plan for a watch just doesn't make any sense in my use case, especially outside of the US where not every cell provider even gives you that option lol.
I got mine today. I’m just a couch potato that will never use it to its full potential but I got it to motivate me into doing more outdoor activities.  I guess thats enough reason for me.  I love it so far.
The production and motion graphics in the intro on a next level.. Ive got to admit MKBHD never fails to make me watch the intros of a video again and again.. 👌🫡
On the scuba diving, it doesn't have air integration. That is the same thing as tank pressure monitoring which isn't supported. We'd need new hardware in the Apple Watch Ultra to enable that.

For me, no air integration is the main reason I wouldn't consider using it as a dive computer. (Well that and the subscription required to use Oceanic+.) It would still be cool to not have to take it off while diving through 🤿
I love the design and how big it is. Yet still light weight.
I'd love to see you in that tux sporting the watch.  Does the Ultra watch have a simple clock face?  Love your engaging videos. 🥰
Hi Marques and all others, side question. I just got one to see if I like it, was going for the fenix 7 solar but this saves me a few bucks so i wanted to try it first. Question, do you all use a case and screen protector? I use one on my apple watch 7 but it impairs my use of swiping and the keyboard A LOT!!! Should i need one for this watch? (disclaimer, i have a titanium citizen and I think titanium scratches easy from that watch) ... Answers are all appreciated, thanks!!!!
I wonder if apple could add solar charging to the watch somehow without making the solar panel obvious and ugly 🤔 would be pretty sweet. But I’m very much enjoying my series 7 and watch os 9. I did have the series 8 preordered but got cancelled somehow, then i saw the deals on the series 7 and had a chance to think about it again and if the minimal changes would be worth the extra money so o decided to save a good chunk for a new series 7 and was able to get that gorgeous blue that the 8 doesn’t have… yet i was excited for the midnight because it matches everything but most of everything i wear anyway match the blue and it’s gorgeous… also matches my iPhone 12 great so 😊👍🏻 great video as always Marques!
I fall in between the Apple Watch and the Apple Watch Ultra because of my rather heavy use and long workouts… it will be nice for an Apple Watch Pro where it’s in between both watches
So today 11/10/22 after having the Ultra for about a month now I put my Series 8 back on. Wore it for about an hour and then put Ultra back on. Can’t go without Ultra. Actually when I workout I think the Ultra syncs up faster with my workout apps than the 8. I use Pedimeter+ to track my daily steps and it syncs well with it. I know it is bigger and little heavier although to me does not feel that much heavier than the Series 8. My workouts are not extreme I just do treadmill or walk outside, stationary bike and Total Gym and love it for that. Heck I live 10 minutes from the Smoky Mountains I might climb a mountain just because.
Just want to say that if I ever have a question about if to purchase something or not, and you have done a review, I can trust your reviews 100%. Thank you for what you do. My wallet hates you, but I am a BIG fan!
Speaking about target audience for these watches - honestly, I just want a regular AW with battery life the same or greater than Ultra priced the same or slightly more than regular AW. Before that happens, I'm sticking to my Garmin despite being a Mac and iPhone user. This shows that there are still a lot of people to be convinced despite of what you have drawn on that piece of paper.
I love my iPhone but have no interest in wearing an Apple Watch yet I still love to hear MKBHD’s opinion on this piece of tech. Maybe one day I’ll make the switch from my regular watch to a tech watch. Great vid as always mate 🙏🏼👌🏼
I wonder how viable it would be to develop a trickle charge ability tapping into body heat and kinetic energy from moving it about? Combined with some advanced solar tech the battery could potentially last way longer. Of course size is an issue too.
Your editor is 🔥
I was thinking about upgrading to this from the SE and after watching this I might actually do it. I bought my SE last Christmas and loved it but am being held back by its battery and the screen durability. My screen currently has deep scratches and I love using it for sleep tracking but I also work early morning so being able to grab it and go would be amazing. Plus I just purchased an EUC so being able to go on long trail rides with those saftey features really speaks volumes to me.
Been waiting on this review… got my Ultra and AirPods due Friday 👀
Your very valid post of battery life is why I haven’t yet bought a smartwatch. My mechanical watch, works by the wearer moving, or my g shock solar, make it easy to pick up the next morning in a rush and go. Having to charge my watch is something I’m not accustomed to, probably won’t ever be lol. It’s a nice piece, but as a diver, I’ll stick to my tried and true purpose built dove computer with 30 plus years in the business.
It's all up to each person to determine wether the purchase of this watch is worth it to them. In my opinion it's bigger, has a few more features, longer battery, more durable, and I think I was looking for something more that stood out. To me my current
Apple Watch will suffice until something truly unique to me stands out and I cannot justify spending $800 on this watch when my significant other purchased one for about $500 for me as a Christmas present not even two years ago. Excellent review btw, I found this helpful.
It can't be overstated how amazing titanium is as a watch material. I once had a Breitling Avenger Seawolf which is water resistant to 3000 meters, and while the diameter wasn't huge, it was almost 19mm thick. I was amazed by how light it was, and also how poorly titanium conducts heat. It felt almost like a heavy duty plastic.
I expect this will sell beyond expectations but many will want a smaller dimensioned one.
Rugged watches are definitely my style. So I definitely don’t mind wasting that much money for it
I have one and I absolutely LOVE it. Best purchase I’ve made in a while.
Look forward to trying it out in-person. But definitely needs to come in other colors. Lots of opportunities to do color anodizing. Wonder if a third party could take the Watch apart and do custom anodizing.
I'm probably considered an "average user" but the battery of the Ultra is very appealing. I use for sleep tracking for health so very appealing indeed to have a few days wear without charging. Is it nice looking on woman wrist too? My wrists are kind of small so I worried about the aesthetic but it is very appealing especially for the charging. Great review thank you!
After nearly a year owning the Ultra, Series 8, SE2022 and Whoop band, all I need is the Whoop and SE fits the bill perfectly
Well, Garmin battery lasts weeks and it pairs with chest heart rate bands very useful for people that do water sports, or need very precise measure during times your wrist is wet or moving a lot.  Does the ultra do that ?
After going into enormous debt with AT&T to stay up with current trends, I can without a doubt say that all this shit is for people that are very well off. Will be purchasing with cash from now on when able to ✌🏻❤️
I got the Series 8 45mm, I will be sticking with that one.
I’m on the fence right now. The big selling point for me is the case and the Safire crystal. I’ve never had an Apple Watch and am looking at getting one for sleep tracking and heart rate monitoring. I was gonna go with the series 8 but if you compare the lte versions the ultra is only 50 dollars more and you get so much extra with it.
The battery,ruggedness alone sold me then add the new features are just icing on the cake.
Currently have the Series 7 Stainless and I am always concerned about scratches and dings...I do hike, dive, ski so this was originally the big appeal  for switching to the Ultra but the IDGAF factor with the titanium and flat face/protected crystal is kind of my new obsession. Def not a watch for everyone but just like you pointed out in the video, it's going to pull in a lot of the "die hards" that don't see value in the regular apple watches. Priced very well too. They probably could have gone up to close to the $1k mark without ostracizing the target market.
As a scuba diver who has reached the max limit for recreational diving, I was really excited about the Ultra but Apple and Oceanic let us down by paywall-ing the actual dive computer capabilities by requiring a subscription. Hopefully more companies in the future have apps compatible with the Ultra
For the second group that does long hiking it still misses too much. Good offline maps are an essential thing which is missing on the apple watch and the battery life is still bad compared to the Garmin watches specialized on that particular group.  The two band GPS isn't really knew ..other specialized watches have that too.
Fw the honest review 🔥
Not sure about others. But personally when I decide on specialized gear - its longevity potential is as important as its feature set. A piece of electronic kit that goes with me underwater and on which arguably my life depends on might be frequently maintained (seals and whatnot). A key navigation item for an extreme hike/journey into a wilderness needs to survive very tough conditions and survive consistently. Once again - maintenance, sometimes quite frequent is required. For extreme runners - I don't run ultras or even half-marathons myself but even for a fast 5k - I want to optimize for lightweight and balance in my load out. Sometimes even my current watch series 4 feels a tad bulky and I can 'feel' its weight. Maybe ultra jack of trades but really a master of none and might be of interest for those already in the ecosystem and willing to drop some extra $ on their fav gadget and maybe have their occasional hobby improved by it.
This watch has an absolutely enormous pull for me as an astronomer. It has a red filter for the display, which is absolutely crucial for astronomy to protect night vision. My current Apple Watch, if I accidentally tilt my wrist, kills my night vision. However, the biggest reason is the waypoint markers. Often us astronomers need to travel far and to remote locations to find darker skies. My closest dark sky area is BEAUTIFUL, but has absolutely zero signal of any degree and can be pretty easy to get lost. Something like the waypoint markers (if accurate and reliable) would massively increase my confidence and enjoyment traveling to remote sites and further my enjoyment of astronomy.
Love that Falcon heavy shirt! Great video thanks.
That ultimate frisbee catch was insane! 👌
As the premium offer of Apple Watches, that will already be enough incentive for most Ultra buyers, even if they only use it to set timer voice commands.
I think the watch is going to be amazing and can not wait for mine to be delivered! However, I also think there are groups of people that this watch applies to that apple kind of forgot about. Construction workers, police officers, firefighters, wild-land firefighters, EMT’s and Paramedics, tow truck drivers, and many more. All of these individuals would benefit from a more rugged and tough Apple Watch with longer battery life, compass and waypoint functionality, an emergency siren, etc. I think there is a large group of everyday people who this watch can cater to, not just uber athletes / adventurers. Obviously the price may be a deterrent for some but I think there are many people other than athletes that this watch will appeal to.
I think I prefer my superb 1960 Omega Constellation Chronometer, it simply runs permanently, is adjusted for angles and temperatures, is made of gold, silver and a little stainless steel... It is more elegant too--none the less am off to buy an Ultra Watch tomorrow, cause I like the idea of the health features.
Best Review Ever!!
The action button is definitely what action man had on his watch. I can definitely see where apple got their inspiration
I wonder if they’ll save the Pro name for a new tier watch - size, battery etc of the Ultra but less focused towards extremes like the ultra is. 

I’d love a bigger brighter longer lasting watch
You’ve hit the nail on the head. Too often reviewers are comparing the Ultra to past smart watches, where as its fitting a true  “watch” or “sport watch” genera. I ware a Breitling and now just purchased the Ultra. It’s lighter and no different in size so it’s perfect. I really don’t get the size criticism!
I am a OTR truck driver and have owned the apple ultra for 3 weeks…in that 3 weeks the SOS function has saved 1 life and assisted in 3 accidents…to me the ultra is indispensable piece of technology
Wouldn't the "Theater Mode" have affected battery life, since it wouldn't turn on the display when you raise your watch, until you touch it?
Where the watch lacks is software, tracking weightlifting & strength training workouts, recording sets & reps marking body parts I mean Garmin is above & beyond. I would use every feature, I just gotta save for it. Very impressive and love the review pretty spot on. Thanks I’ll be saving for it.
Just ordered
Great review. Said exactly what I think of them
Love your vids bro,keep up the great work, btw enjoyed the vid😀
0:10 my reaction exactly 😂 it looks so good!!
Gor this for my birthday, coming from a series 3 watch this is a huge step up
So hey… I’m not an athlete AT ALL or anything even close to it… but I DO love these Apple Watches.  I do a let of texts  while working , and have found the Apple Watch a good way to make that faster, instead of taking your phone out, unlocking it, opening messages, etc….   So for someone like ME, out of all the Apple Watches out there, which do you think would be the best?  I like this ULTRA with the longer battery life, but don’t know if I really need all those extra features that I’ll probably NEVER USE.  thanks bud.  -Vinnie from Alaska
Good review brother!! 👌🏾. I feel a lot better with my purchase (which is understandable because it is a $800 Apple Watch ⌚️ 💰!!!). That’s the same price as a standard iPhone 14 😮. I think there should be an extreme review whereas they drop it or emulate it being bumped against the corners etc. I say that because I really want to know how robust this titanium holds up against real world situations. The 44mm se I got didn’t hold up to these situations as such especially with the band that was included for it unlatched too easily for with this new ultra I like the different options offered for I went with the alpine loop green color. Most importantly I like the size of the screen for it appears to be not too big but big enough to see everything without having to pull it close to your face. It also appears to feel more like a traditional watch as compared to the 44mm se (it was the biggest screen at the time but compared to the ultra it’s tiny 😅). Can’t wait until mines get shipped out for there’s a back order on them so I won’t receive mine including my 14 pro until Christmas Eve’s Eve 🤞🏾 🙏🏾. But watching your review makes me think it’ll be worth the wait!! ✌🏾
I find charging my watch while driving a good way of not missing anything important and always having my watch charged.
Love mine! Best watch ever!!
“Ultimate frisbee practice” 😂
I don't own a single Apple product, but I still watch nearly every video of you. Hearing your opinion on new tech is great. About watch and battery: I have a Casio with a 10 year battery which is running for 14 years now. So for now I cant imagine getting a watch I need to charge daily. Also no watch for 800$...damn.
Speaker part for the watch, would you be able to listen to podcasts/music/other listening apps via sports apps from the Ultra Watch without headphones? My Apple Watch ⌚️ 7 doesn’t allow me to do that without my headphones.
Love this!
first thing i notice is you rock it with the button closer to u i never wear my watch like that always button closer to hand not elbow
I am not an apple fan... but I love this new watch from Apple. I like the look, I love big screens. I am on the Galaxy Watch 5 pro now, but I much prefer that Apple watch. I never thought I would say this one.. now im shy lol
Marques, I'm curious: have you ever damaged an Apple Watch while practicing or playing Ultimate Frisbee? Or is durability good enough even on the regular models?
Nice Video Pal, but don't you think it has some comfort issue with this orange loop ? i mean is this practically comfortable ?
Excellent review. Thank you
After switching to Garmin, I don’t think I’ll ever switch back to Apple Watch. 30+ days of battery life, solar charging, extremely durable, multi satellite GPS, Tons of different workouts. I highly recommend the Garmin Fenix 7.
that watch is thick. but it looks like a good competitor and baseline for competition in this kind of smart watch
Never really been much of a watch guy, but I hate how much I use my phone and carry my phone with me.  This may just be the pill I need now that the battery life is getting better
Watching you on Flagrant was fun!!
i think it looks like one of the first smartwatches. like a mini smartphone strapped to the wrist.

i am an extreme sport person (skydive, basejump, wingsuit, dive, freedive, rock climbing, etc) and to me the biggest issue is the form factor (entanglement) and battery life.

theres no way 2 days is enough.

my go to watch is a garmin descent g1 solar. it looks like a gshock, is super durable, has gps, is a full blown dive computer WITHOUT subscription, and has weeks of battery life with solar recharging

to me the apple watch ultra is like a porsche SUV. its for people who want to feel "as if" without actually needing the functionality.

a hiker can use the normal apple watch, a runner as well.

a real diver (not just 1,2 scuba dives occasionally per year) would not trust this watch. 

in the mountains and snow, the cold will drain the battery even faster...

i also dont like the display, bright sunlight and polarized sunglasses will make it hard to read. garmin uses a technology where the watch becomes better readable the more sunlight reflects off the screen.
Good review. I turned off the always on display on my series 7 and it usually gets 48 hours of life. If they made a smaller version of the ultra I would probably get it. For now it’s too big
Just succumbed to an Ultra  .. finally.  I was a hold out with an SE for the small size.  Despite a drawer full of watches (some quite expensive) I no longer wanted to wear a watch, but when I could finally leave my phone at home or in the car and jettison one more item out of my cycling jersey I added the SE to my wrist.  Small, svelte and easy to manage - except for keeping the stupid thing charged.  I'd ski and track vertical but run out of battery to make a call or unlock a BT ski locker door or house door when returning home.  An 100 mile bike ride and the SE was running on fumes at the end.  These are not "extreme" activities  but just average endeavors that other Apple Watches couldn't handle with the confidence that I could remain in communication and linked to technology if/when needed.  So like me, there is some subset of the 90% that can benefit from switching to the Ultra.  Probably not going to use scuba functionality but tracking/mapping will be useful for backcountry skiing/skinning.
Great review! I just want an apple watch with a bigger battery but I don’t need the other new features. I can’t believe this is apples only option for a bigger battery
Would love a video on how and if you can replace your phone with this and an iPad.
Why doesn’t anyone mention this watch will also suit people who are more hands on at work? I got it due to the titanium case and the flat screen with edge protection. I’ll feel much more confident raw dogging it at work now. I use a bumper case on my series 6.
Reviewing because I currently have the Series 5, which just doesn’t hold up it’s battery anymore. I’m stuck between the 8, and the ultra. I deliver and install appliances for a living, I’m ALWAYS hitting my hand on things, reaching into tight spaces and hitting my watch on things. It seems the Ultra would be the best for me. Thoughts? Did you need/use a screen protector at all?
That beat 🤯
That's a good point about the shape. When I first saw this I thought it was gigantic, then I saw it's the same size as a Garmin Fenix. It's the square shape, it doesn't look like a typical watch. It's so completely irrational but I can't stand square watches.
I'll wait till the battery life is at Garmins level.  A week between charges would be good.
This video had me upgrade from the Series 3 to the Ultra. I’ve been influenced.
Just ordered 1 from T-Mobile today can’t wait to get it currently have SE 2
Just what I wanted!
I love the look of the Ultra and the hardened features, but I hesitate to spend $800+ on a watch that's battery will degrade in a couple years' time no matter what you do.  I'll stick with the normal Apple watch for almost half the cost of the Ultra.
Hi Marques! Super video again. Is there any platform where we can watch you playing a fresbie match. I've never seen a professional level of this sport but because of you I want to see you playing it. Thank you if someone answer me. Have a nice day :)
I just bought one, worth it!
*Non-Apple Watch wearing Master Scuba Diver thoughts:* Marques stickman example is correct. I'm a long time Apple fan, but have never purchased an Apple Watch because it simply doesn't have the features that I want. I fit into that fringe group and have been waiting for an upgraded version that could stick with the activities I like to do. Their dive computer is impressive, but keep in mind it's only functional for recreational divers with a max depth of 130ft. Any technical divers going beyond that cannot use it, which is unfortunate. I also live in Canada and the dives here are in cold water requiring a dry suit. I question how the watch would perform when it's snowing outside and you're at 100ft. Great start however, and seeing as I spent $1500 on my Shearwater Teric for diving, I could stomach this purchase to have all the features standard to the Apple Watch, while also being able to stick with me during my more out there activities.
I think the seller for me is the longevity. I’m still rocking a series 3 and the batter life has diminished, but it’s certainly not unusable. Now this, with its battery life and ruggedness? I feel like it will last me a lifetime. That’s it for me, longevity.
First I want to say is that I look forward to seeing your videos. They really help me to decide if I really want to buy to buy the latest Apple products. Can you please please please tell Tim Cook to add the battery levels of the AirPods to the Apple Watch. It is very frustrating to have my AirPods go dead while I’m busy at work listening to music on my watch. Please respond back if you can. Thanks so much.
Can Hermes bands be used on the Ultra 2? Btw, great review!
Great video, exactly as you mentioned, two days of battery life is kind of bad. I have had some pretty cheap Huawei smartwatches for over two years now and they still last for 6+ days. They did 10 days when they were new. I don't understand why Apple cannot do the same...
Marques is definitely one of the greatest phone reviewers in the world from any perspective. His explanation is always so accurate, informative and on point.
Would you purchase one now or wait until October
I’m on the fence because I use a Garmin Solar and the battery life is substantially better. But the other features of the ultra seem appealing.
I think it targets a very specific demographic but still doesn't do everything like a garmin or whatever it's just in a very apple-ish way
Here's me with a Huawei GT2, just does watch things with health-fitness-sleep tracking, lasts up to 3 weeks on one charge, and the titanium build quality is very nice.
Definitely overkill for me for what I do but the size and battery life makes it the winner.
Hey Marques - I want to replace my phone with an LTE smart watch, which means battery is important since it will be pretty regularly be directly connected to LTE when I'm not at home. Do you think this watch would be good, or do you have another suggestion?
I like this despite the fact it's pretty useless to a lazy boy like myself. Battery life still sucks compared to say the entire Amazfit series that go past 2 or more weeks on a charge while still being very useful to the vast majority of folks. I hope Apple gets that in future versions. Great review Marques!
For the price it is still missing solar charging. If they are trying to target the outdoor adventurer it needs solar charging like the garmin watches and other competitors in the market.
Best watch ever! Thanks for review!
Was planning to buy this one but thankfully MKBHD has a review on it and I decided not to go for it since i thought about i Only do light work out and shoot some hoops on my local park. Yeah… my apple watch SE 2nd gen is fine with me. Saves me so much money too. Lol
This is actually epic
That battery life still kills for most I know in those fringe groups they seem to be trying to target.  I will stick to my Fenix that I typically charge up maybe twice a month.
Late to the party, but I was browsing watches today as after I did the update to 16.4 on my 14 pro max, the watch gave up the ghost, again. Gets stuck in boot loop, last August I had BB Geek Squad look at it. They couldn’t fix it, sold me a refurb for $400, now 6 months later this one isn’t working. Gonna contact them for options, but I have a hunch I know where it’s heading. I always get stainless case large screened watches because I have big wrists and they look more proportional, plus I like the weight. A series 8 in stainless 45mm is the same price as an ultra, so I thought about it. Came to see your thoughts, thanks for the video and honest review. I think it’s a no brainer that if they’re both the same price to just get the ultra, but I’m still undecided. Don’t use have the stuff my regular ones do, so it might be overkill, but at the same price as a S8 45mm? 🤷‍♂️
I appreciate that you wear your watch on your right wrist
I got one bc it looks cool and is more durable. I broke my last Apple Watch and it wasn’t worth it to fix. Really happy with the best Apple Watch they make
I think I'm going to wait for the ultra 2 or if they actually make a "pro"
Ultimate frisbee practice is hilarious 🤣😂🤣😂🤣😂
Finally I bought one🎉🎉🎉❤❤
The Apple Watch Ultra to be honest is an quite refined Apple Watch with its rectangular edges and that is why I adore the watch apart from the same previous designs
Apple could really put Garmin on notice if they added a native golf app. I have to imagine there are more golfers out there than divers. I imagine with the GPS, gyroscopes, etc. they could really tie in tempo, shot tracking, elevation, and even weather into a compelling package for a lot of Garmin golf users.
I drive delivery for a living and always hated the small watch even the bigger one looked small on my wrist but this is much better so def gonna pick it up. And yes I will get the ultra watch 2
You’re the man 🙏🏿🦅
3:12 and Price
0:38 Thing I am most impressed with, is how far down his wrist he can wear his watch. Samsung you have to shove about an inch above the wrist bone.
Thank you.
i think it all dependes whether  you need it or not , im not a pro athlete just a runner and i only need to know simple things like distanced run , timer , calories burned, and some simple items and i have the apple watch se which is good enough for me however if u are a pro athlete , hikers , scuba divers hardcore adventurer i think it might worth buying it but still considering its an 800 dollar watch if you are willing to pay then its fine but for me it all just depends on whether u need it or not
Me watching the live: Who will spend 800 dollars to buy this?
me after the live : wtf, I have to wait a month for delivery! !
Definitely overkill for me but I have a series 4 and had been wanting to update to a watch with always on display so I have an Ultra on order. People were expecting this “pro” watch to be over $1K, which would have been an easy pass for me. When it came in at $799, it made it appear as a bargain and motivated people to buy.  I think Apple planted those >$1K rumors. 😂
That catch 🤌🏼
What I did not like about the past Apple Watches is that the wrist bands would be taken off easily. Hopefully the ultra has a fix to that .
As a scuba instructor, I really want this watch, the price, is doable, if I see it as a watch, and a simple dive computer in one. My current dive computer, mares icon hd with transmitter, was way more expensive, and can only be used for diving. Sure; it has way more diving features, but for 80% of my dives, overkill. The Apple Watch ultra is indeed compact in comparison.
Love how apple literally buffed up the entire thing to make it "ultra"
Upgraded from my series 4 aluminum, difference is night and day
I love mine like crazy!
0:16 nice 😏
I bought a Series 7 new for $329 a few weeks ago and I love it. No regrets but the Ultra looks amazing. I have no purpose for one though!
The one with yellow ocean band is my favourite! ❤
So this one is better than the Hermes ? Deciding which one to get out of the 2 , help ?? 🙏
who knew smart watches could have an "ultra" variant... tech marketing never fails to amaze me
Really is a good looking watch I do go hiking but it sucks it comes in one color which sucks I hope they come out with different colors next year and Apple is one of the beast of companies and other companies r catching up quickly
Is it overkill for regular apple watch user but underperform for adventure watch?
Love you Marques
I've got a feeling this is going to be another one of those *"Jeep Mall Crawler"* situations.

We'll see more people using it because they like the rugged look than people actually using it for its intended use.
Smart watches battery life or the lack of it have always been a deal breaker for me , good to see apple is trying to make it better, but a couple of days battery life is still somewhat hot hum though , I don’t know if there is a setting for watch only mode , but that might make it a bit more palatable in my case , I don’t need all smart functions all the time.
I’m a beginner alpinist who climbs above 13 and 14 thousand feet and I definitely wouldn’t mind an avalanche alarm great gps as well as long battery life plus tracking calories and fitness stuff during bjj or rock climbing and the gym would be great
I'm coming from a Samsung Gear S3.  I normally an Apple guy with iPhones & MacBook Pro, but I went Samsung because I liked the sporty look.  I was impressed with the watch in the beginning but later, those features stopped working.  It went out on me and I'm looking at the Ultra 2.  Like when I used to shop for a mechanical watch, the look is important.  I didn't like the small iPad looking device on my wrist.
It's a watch for people from the inside who think they are anywhere near the outside. Same people that spend 10k on a bike while being overweight
I’m waiting for an Apple Watch to look aesthetically pleasing. A circular thin with chamfer will be awesome but having a square with flat edges like their phones will be stunning.
As owning only my second Apple Watch since they came out ( the first one and the 6th). I wish Apple will make a third watch that has the bigger battery without all that other fluff. They can have the regular, plus, and ultra.
I have a SE, I love it, I just upgraded to this
When it can last at least week on a single charge I might consider one. 

I’ll stick with my Garmin until then. 👍
Even though the Apple Watch series models are waterproof I still don’t trust taking them in the water but with the Ultra I feel very confident that it will be fine no matter the conditions
I wore this watch when going to the ISS. I love it.
I do warehouse work where phones are not permitted. 
However, I can have the Ultra watch with AirPods Pro to listen to podcast/music etc. 
my Watch 6 won't last as long as I need. 
Soon to find out if the Ultra will be the answer.
One of the problems that I see here is the touch screen. It's hard to rely on a touch screen instead of buttons, for example, on the Garmin Watches. And if it's an activity that, a bad movement can risk your life. No way. I can't see this as useful for professional climbers, diving, etc.
That 3 days battery is good for Apple, appalling for Garmin.
I still use the series 7 it still does everything I need it to
Very cool vid.  I’m curious to see what the Apple Watch Ultra 2 will add/improve.  The battery is still a tad low.  I need it to be at least 30-40% more.  I also think it’s crap Apple charges $800 for a watch and you still need to have a subscription to use all the dive features.  That’s prob the reason I will pass.
W video like always <3
As an android user, the watch looks really cool along with its features. The thing is, $800 for a watch feels kinda overkill. That's just my opinion on it.
I have one and even threw a case/shell on it. It’s thin so it doesn’t add bulk, but I do a lot of shipwreck and cavern diving. Narrower spaces that require me to pull myself through across a limestone surface have worn down far more expensive equipment than my Apple Watch. Your use case may vary.
I will never ever own any other version of an Apple Watch. Ultra will be the only one I purchase now. Still using this since release and LOVE every bit of it mainly its toughness. I have hit this thing on concrete walls, heavy metal doors, a cardboard compacting machine and so much more. You have to really tilt it and move it around to see the very minor scratches on it. If I owned any other version of the Apple Watch, I would have smashed it long ago and broke it. Best piece of tech I have bought in a long time. Battery health is still at 95% as well.
A big thing for divers is that it does not keep track of your tank and other features. That should be an automatic no go. It’s cool that apple is trying to envelope all different stuff but more specialized watches are way better and they should be bought in order to support the creators who actually do good work.
I might want this one instead of the 8. I wanna get one for my birthday Present lol
Can’t wait to test mine out snowboarding see how well it tracks speed and distance over my slopes app.
The Bluetooth connection works with older cars. I have a 2009 BMW and it pairs and works. SYK
0:51 It's crazy how that's impressive for an Apple watch. I have a Huawei watch that lasts for like two weeks on Android lol
Wait until he tests the Garmin Fenix 7. The battery life will blow his mind. 😂
I saw a video of someone pairing the button to unlock/lock his tesla. Pretty Cool!
just realized that you through in the john mayer g shock in there. nice
Ohhh man, it looks huge even on mk… I think it will be like a tablet on my wrist.
The Apple Watch Series 7 came in black titanium and didn’t scratch so it could have totally been done. Weird choice by Apple not to introduce a black titanium variant.
Does it take a SIM card?
Are there any slip-on wristbands, not belt ones?
What I think every review missed on the Ultra is the price vs normal Apple Watch stainless price. It’s the same price with so much more!
The Apple Watch ultra is $50 less than the stainless steel version 45 mm Apple Watch Series 8 here where I live so yes it’s actually such a good deal where the Apple Watch ultra is currently priced
Crazy world we live in when cell phones and smart watches cost just as much as budget laptops.
Can it show me live tracking of my steps though?
May be a dumb question but I think the majority of people that wear watches do so on the wrist opposite their dominate hand. Ie right-handed folks would wear a watch on their left wrist. The Apple Watch(es) appear to be constructed to be worn on the left wrist (bezel oriented like a “normal” wrist watch). Do you find it any more difficult interacting with your watch wearing it on your right wrist?  Do you cross over or under to operate the bezel for example. Thanks.
What impressed me is that the ultra is only less than 100 bucks more than the stainless steel 45mm cellular series 8 with a regular band, which makes the ultra, in my eyes, a pretty decent deal.
This watch is not simply for those who NEED the extra features, it for anyone and everyone who wants to rock the most expansive iWatch there is. Which is a much bigger group than those who will actually use its crazy features. Its like seeing those off-road capable Land Rovers, able to go up steep inclines, wade through high water and climb over rocks and through thick mud, but are really only used to drop the kids off at school and go mall shopping.
I do CrossFit and a lot of trail running and have ambition to do 1-2 50km or 100km ultra marathons - I have a feeling this will be replacing my daily wear Garmin Fenix 7 when I’m ready, BUT go back to the Garmin for actual events
Hey Marques, what app do you find best on Apple Watch for golfing?
I didn’t charge my smart watch for 16 days and it still had 40% battery when I decided to charge it. It only took like 10 min to charge fully as well, with a 12 watt charging brick. Only “downside” is that it doesn’t have touch screen. Super pleased though with the Garmin smart watch
Love how Samsung adds the word pro to its watch 
While apple adds the word ultra to its watch
I have the series 7. I just purchased a stainless extreme mod kit from a company called Robust. My series 7 now looks better than any Apple Watch period. My point is, you can buy a mod kit for much less than paying for a new watch.
I got a watch that the battery last 10 years, I can track my pulse, have the date, I can track my respiration rate, and it’s super cheap! It’s a Casio, if you know how to count you can track just about anything
I would check out DC Rainmaker’s review of the Apple Watch Ultra. I think MKBHD’s review applies more to the common person who wants that little bit extra from a normal Apple Watch (aka the more active person who doesn’t want to charge their Apple Watch everyday). But the lack of native trail maps for ultra distance runners and the lack of integration of power meters for triathletes is a pretty big letdown. I think the cycling app is pretty much worthless on the Apple Watch if you’re a serious cyclist or triathlete. Not to say that Apple can’t change this issues, but will they want to devote the resources and money to make this happen. For these reason, I don’t think most ultra athletes will give up their Garmins, etc. for this Watch. As such, I think they probably should’ve named it the Apple Watch Pro rather than the Ultra. But I think overall it’s probably the best Apple Watch for everyday use.
The bigger battery is nice, but that thing looks like too much of a chonker for my wrist.
Fucking LOVE that you use 20syl for your intro. He's literally one of the most talented producers of all time
What about for seniors,not just young athletes?  Legibility, calling for help, etc.
In my opinion, this watch is greatly well-made. But, no matter how complicated technology has been put into that thing making it that expensive, the most important thing of it is to keep track of time.
800? It's getting  crazier by the year. Laughable!
6:33  from my first day of using apple watch I set the display to list view style
i have a realme watch s
severely limited features 
has a 390 mah battery
but lasts like 15-20 days
costs around $100
so like
what is actually eating the battery on those guys
does accuracy in health monitoring and gps really eat up that much battery
I'm thinking of buying it, but my condition is like, I do work under hard marine environment, so the roughness of it is what matters the most for it... gonna look for more destructives tests to decide if it worth getting or not =)
Three hour workout is very impressive with an Apple Watch. You can complete a marathon with it.
And I am watching this from my 5 dollar aliexpress chair and my apple watch series 3 from Walmart. I love watching videos about things I cant afford
The health app will that read your current steps (step count , asymmetry , floors climbed etc )  similar to the iphone . If you are just using watch stand alone for time reading and tracking health what is estimated time that the I watch will last before it runs out of the charge . What are the standard background running apps on the watch that are fixed . thaks
There is one pro market that Garmin is dominating and I don’t see the Apple Watch ultra taking over: military. The ruggedness concern is more, the needs for at least 1 week is there, the needs for it to run completely independently or anonymously (aka kill all wireless sensors), also in some scenario we just aren’t to have any smart watch even Garmin. But I will admit, I’m really tempted and want to see if there any reviews that cover this usage.
My $24 CASIO watch never needs to be charges for over 5 years.  Not to mention how much time I save not looking at it.
8:11

huh... i could have told them the reason had they asked the consumer, instead of assuming... it's the price, not some missing monitoring feature.
Unboxing Therapy has a really good video about this, using only it for a day.
The round watches are tapering the wrong way.
That’s Ultra Expensive 😂
Oversized watches aren't out of place even as a simple fashion accessory. Before the smart watch really caught on for wide use (I didn't buy one until the Apple watch 3) I was wearing large fashion watches. It was actually an adjustment going from bigger watches to such a small, light watch. Some women also would wear men's sized fashion watches and in my opinion they didn't look out of place on a smaller wrist. Obviously it's up to personal taste how large a watch someone is comfortable wearing, I just don't think an individual would need to be self conscious about wearing the larger Apple watch. After all, even though it's a computer on your wrist it's still very much a fashion accessory too!
Maybe it’s just me but I was very interested in how well that scratch on your hand healed over the course of the video…lol. Thanks for post.
I'll be honest I went with the ultra because I wanted a bigger watch that I didn't have to charge every night. Other than that, idk if I'll ever use the other features.
I’m a diver, and I am VERY intrigued as to how the Apple Watch would do. If they added air integration I would have been all over it!
The real question is "Can it beat the Garmin Fenix" ?
I'm not a diver, but I don't know if I would trust it underwater. Battery life, fiddly touch interface under water, who knows how good the water resistance over time is and the risk of some sort of software glitch / freeze. I don't know, I've got a real dive watch though, it's as tough as nails and simple and easy to use. Solar powered and lasts forever. Same with serious hiking, I bet they would still keep a real compass. I'm not sure if one gadget with lots of software can replace multiple specialized watches.
What do you recommend, how do we charge this watch ? Just in I usually charge my iphone when its at 20% and I stop at 90%? MY Samsung S3 or anyother smart watches are always on charge when I am not using them which is not a good idea. What about this watch ?
Stainless steel apple watch 8 costs $749 and the ultra $799. So much to unpack here 🤔
My Garmin Fenix lasts a month with more practice features. Apple Is dropping the ball with their cookie. cutter models and lack of big innovation. I've been an Apple Gear head for 20 years but sadly the company has lost its luster.
Is the screen edge a dent/chip magnet?
I compared the weight of the 61 gram Ultra to my 39 gram 45mm Series 8 and was surprised that I barely noticed the extra weight. And fyi, the silver titanium of the Ultra is closest to the Starlight aluminum of the Series 8, not the silver. I really like the look of titanium. Although the Nike sport loop band paired with the S8 makes for a nice tight fit, (I’m a pianist and need the watch to stay snug without throwing off my wrist’s balance), I’m seriously considering taking it back and getting the Ultra. There’s nothing wrong with the 45mm S8, but the upgraded features are great for me. Tough call. If the weight had been obviously noticeable. I wouldn’t be considering this.
As a Garmin and an Android fan, Apple is doing some big things.

I won't buy one but it's quite impressive. Apple fans out there will likely be happy.
100m of water resistance doesn't mean it can get anywhere near those depths, it's just a measurement of pressure which is equivalent to 10ATM, which is about half of the minimum spec for a watch to be considered dive capable, you do not want to take a 100m wr watch diving.
boy you're good!!!!
do you wear in on the right or left wrist or just switch based on the time of the day/band.
One niche segment that's likely bigger than any of the sport-oriented ones you and Apple have mentioned, is the large watch wearer. There are millions of people that simply found all other Apple watches too small. Period. Nothing else. This watch is for them.  

Next you have people like me, the new styling is one of the strongest selling points. Flat display being key. I could have done with 46mm, but it's the style nonetheless. And of course the obvious, battery life.

Watch Ultra is going to sell like crazy if initial availability conditions are any indicator.
Nice try Apple, but i'm still not giving up my Garmin Fenix 6 Pro.
Just Got the SE and I’m loving it but one thing I wish if for bigger battery, btw my SE going for 2 days without a charge! Ik it say 18 hours but nope I had it on my wrist for 2 days straight and 1/2 nights :)
informative ad.
Biggest issue I’ve had with the Apple Watch is how they eventually become obsolete. Many people enjoy simple watches because no matter how high end or cheap, they all do the same thing: tell time. Smart watches as a whole get upgraded every single year, and eventually the older models get software updated out of existence. Their guaranteed obsolescence makes it hard for people to justify the purchase of a $300-$1000 watch that will eventually need to be replaced.
0:00 Duration of Watch
1:15 It’s Ultra NOT Pro!
2:48 B-roll Unboxing
3:08 Ruggedness, Features, Battery
3:54 Build Quality
5:51 Battery & Capability
6:33 The Orange/Action Button
8:06 Who’s This Watch For? 
8:22 For Divers
9:10 For Hikers
10:13 For Endurance Athletes
10:54 Battery Optimization 
11:46 Watch Bands
12:22 Reviews From Different People
12:47 Marques’ Review
Can you compare it to the new 8 series?
I wanted the larger screen forever I wanted a better speaker forever I also want to be able to use it more like phone without it being so small when my finger tries to dial it’s always hitting the wrong character
Putting a protective case on this will make it massive . Considering the price of this a case is a necessary evil.
We have become too complacent.  This watch is a mind bending technological marvel at $800.  If we told people 100 years ago how many things this wristwatch can do, it would have caused mass hysteria.
Bro, I bought one and the back cracked about a month in... Unfortunately I did not get the apple care since I was coming from a series 2 and that one looks new.. 😢sad..
as a non water person or traveler , I need this for its multi day battery only , it’s annoying charging every night I forget to strap it on often lol and the screen is bigger
My Apple Watch Series 2 recently died, and seeing the Ultra actually pushed me to get a Garmin Watch instead. For the money, the battery life is what ultimately swayed me away from the Apple Watch.
In a nutshell: *Not worthy*
I love your voice and your Falcon Heavy T-Shirt!!
I love ultimate frisbee. Wish there were people playing in FL
Watch is worth but not suits on your wrist .. your wrist could have been better 😂😅
I just wish the watch a bit smaller and I found the pop up bezel make it not tempting
Bought this for the looks love it and definitely overkill for many
I have a garmin fenix 7 not sure what Apple can provide in terms of additional features. My charge lasts 18 days
I have the series 7 and I am always scared of breaking it. I have a case and screen protector but I still get nervous.
My Dream Watch
My Dream Watch
how accurate are the ECG results, i wonder
0:42 it isn’t fair you have theatre mode that turns off always on so make a better review on battery next time but for the rest keep it going
i have the series 6 is this worth the switch?
how'd you do that effect at 1:09 I think you might've used some practicals but im not sure
im only half through the video but i wish there was more comparison to similar watches, (other smart watches)
One of the best products I've ever purchased!
One thing, for Scuba Dive. The app Oceanic+ needs a subscription that you have to pay for it😅 $5 the day or $80per year (well there’s a free subscription but you don’t have no deco time, so basically it’s not a computer dive without the payed one). Just one thing to consider. Something I forgot also, his water resistance is up to 40m, not 100m
Come on Marques get with it. Oversized is definitely cool. I’ve ordered some snap on Watch protectors in black, blue to instantly change how my Ultra looks. So be bold and wear a big black wrist watch.
Just found out the real kicker, the Oceanic+ app will be subscrition based, so if you want to actually use it as a dive computer, it's gonna cost you 5 $/day, 10$/mo or 80$/y
This just automatically disqualifies this watch for me.
By the time you pay for the watch and the subscription, you're allready at the garmin descent territory mk2, which still functions as a watch and a dive computer you can use for free.
I expect with smart watches getting larger, they will switch to a landscape orientation. Several times he shows his wrist and the watch bottom is barely making contact for its sensors. A landscape orientation would have just as much information display but have less wrist width to fit those with smaller wrists. There are several examples of watches in this format all the way up to MB&F HOROLOGICAL MACHINES
I love this watch! no such thing as over kill.
Thanks for the vid.  what watch face waa that?
I have this watch and I wish it had face recognition on it or am I missing something?🤔
The airpod low battery audio got me here😂😂 1:11
Hey!!! Help us find a silicone watch band for this ultra.  Hard to find one like the one in this video
yeah the silver watch color stands out. Would buy it if it came out with a different watch case color - like black.
As a travel photographer that goes to extreme places this was a must for me. I swim with sharks (free diving), am on my way to hike to photograph silverback gorillas in Rwanda, after which I will be in the desert of Egypt and then am heading to Antarctica to photograph whales... that's a normal routine for me. I don't take my phones on these excursion because the risk of losing, dropping or breaking them is pretty high. As well as an animal grabbing it which monkeys or lemurs will do. So I purchased the cellular ultra. But I understand most people aren't doing these things so I think it may be unnecessary for them. I had a Fitbit but this watch obviously does more. My Fitbit battery lasts way longer. I had the apple store make sure my screen stays off which they said will give me a few more days of battery life.
They really should make it black with the DLC they used for the space black titanium series 5-7. Those watches have great scratch resistance and it would match better with a lot more watch bands
Just bought this big ass watch for no reason. I love it btw… it’s huge and the battery is great. You can definitely suffice with the series 8 for way less money… but again . I love it. Only thing I don’t like is that the silver screen is very annoying, I think the black would be a better option
So it's like the Sansung Watch 3 with battery life
 nice!
I'm interested in buying an Ultra 2 but my local electronic chain in Germany (I'm American) doesn't have them yet.  When will the watch get to use?  I'm interested in the Titanium iPhone 15 and now, it's not expected until late December.  I could get a colored one but I want the plain Ti.
do you think Apple Ultra will come out with a different watch color case?
nah dunno
I´m sticking with my series 5. Love the battery time I don´t check my watch twice a minute so the battery life is very good. I can use my watch 2 days before  I charge it :)
I always get the feeling that the fancy-schmancy graphics and editing turn these vids into ads.
Just came back from Raja Ampat and my Divebuddy had one. Using it for the first time he was very happy with it. And forcwhat I was shown I liked it too!
There was a time when it was a trend, slim and light was the target, that was bad when it got extreme 🙄 now the opposite trend🥲 functionality over aesthetics
Pretty soon they will be useful for pilots including instrument flying and yachtsmen navigating far out at sea.
Also a medical function to monitor vitals such as BP, O2 sat,  heart rate and irregular heart rate. The only limit is one's
imagination.
You mentioned going to your practice at the beginning of the video. May I ask you what type of activity you engage with and practice. Thanks. Curious. Sounds like you are really burning up those calories!!
I wonder what devices you use for personal use
Have my dad my new green series 7, bought an ultra. Haven’t looked back it’s like comparing a Lexus to a porsche
So I bought 2 watches Ultra cellular 4 days ago and very disappointed I’m getting a call fail if someone call me and both Phone and Watch are close by then i walk away leaving the phone away and talking on the watch after reaching some distance when the phone and watch get disconnected from Bluetooth I’m getting a call fail until the watch start using his data apple and my carrier ATT telling me watch shouldn’t be working like that but no one give me a solution I’m returning both watch next week if no one resolve this problem apparently happening to everyone just not all people are aware about this issue any tips or help ? 
Thanks
doesnt work woth full sleeve tattoos was sad when i had to return my apple watch ultra 2
Amazon sells the silicon covers for the ultra watch in different colors so you can get a black one. What @Marques Brown watch do you wear the most? What phone do you use daily?
the problem with Apple watches is that most people only use them for fitness apps and aldarms and things though I tried connecting to the internet on one person's as they let me and got a site. The size of the screens can become impractically small. Some people say you don't need a watch if you have the time on your phone though I think that before long watches may replace pocket phones if one can get them to do everything a smart phone does. In fact many are now being made to pay online by flicking it like you would with a mobile payment app with a credit debit or gift card put on it. I still use mobile with my gift cards put on them to pay and rid the card safely when I do if smart watches are being made to do this and to have maps the pocket cellphone will be old technology in a number of years to come
I just like looking cool & important & I got deep pockets! U sold me on titanium silver one. Now I just need a pink band or 🌈. Awesome video. Type 2 diabetic hope this helps me in gym.
This watch is for people that hike and dive and adventure.

Me being 6’6 and fat: ooooh it’s got a big ass screen!
Also, I feel they should offer a much larger version for those who don't want to carry a phone.
Wow what's that keyboard and keycaps at 2:43? I totally want these, they look so cool! Anybody know?
I have a series 4. I’m loving the new look. Hmm.
I am a eleven y/o and I got a Apple Watch ultra do you have any tips for me?
I love large watches too.
If I have series 8, Is it worth the change?
I’d only get this for the screen size and battery alone. I currently have the SE2.
Imma be honest.....I'm getting it because of the 49mm face. I am a big man with a large athletic build and a big wrist, and that bigger face would really just suite me better proportionately. I don't like small watches on my wrist. That's my main reason for getting it....everything else is a bonus...lol.
Elderly like my mom that need larger and brighter screen, not tech savvy, need battery life, and need the safety features like fall alerts. Sounds extreme but services that do fall alerts usually charge like $50 a month which makes Apple Watch Ultra all the sudden sounds reasonable. $10 a month for cell service and watch pays for itself versus cost of fall alert service within a year, plus provides her a lot accessibility features than just fall alerts.
Thank you! Quick question: Is it possible to wear it reversed so that you must turn your hand over to see the face?
I bet a cerakote finish would take really well to this watch. And it’s super durable for use of firearms and suchZ
I want to learn to freedive but don’t want to buy any more watches. I have a garmin fenix already but doesn’t do depth. If I’m gonna buy a smartwatch this has to be the one. Though I don’t think I will use it to its fullest.
My two cents coming in a little bit late lol the Apple Watch in my opinion looks way better in the larger version the Apple Watch Ultra. I’ve always felt that the previous versions looked a little cheap even though I have worn the Apple Watch seven. With this being said to me, the battery is better. The look is absolutely much better and at least if you’re wearing a nicer band, it actually gets a lot of compliments. I’d like to see this watch another 4 mm bigger would be perfect.
0:10 that subtle God Damn 💀
Wow Marque thats a YUUUUGE watch!!
See I know this was designed for sports and adventure. But as a truck driver I like the red mode for driving at night. Also the long battery life for my long shifts. A lot of these upgrades make a lot of people’s life’s better just not the adventurist. Or when I was working in construction I had to stop using an Apple Watch for a bit it was too fragile for the environment. I wouldn’t be to afraid to use this in those environments.
Watch design for right handed users can it be set to use on the right to allow for lefties ?
Is it possible to select a sound for the alarm app or does it only vibrate?
how much is it coats you for the whole watch? is it worth it?
Should I switch my watch to my other wrist to when I drive? Lol jk it's def a more aesthetically pleasing shot.  Good stuff as always! Edit: Oh nvm my  b you really do wear on the right!
I really want a watch that does body fat percentage. So far, the only watch I know that does that is the Samsung galaxy 4. Does this latest iPhone do it ?
Great video, however SCUBA divers be aware: there's a bit of a mix-up with the info – this watch does NOT feature air integration (which is the same thing as tank pressure monitoring). Perhaps in the future Apple will make an Ultra capable of emitting a radio signal that works underwater, compatible with existing tank cylinder transmitters. Now that would be awesome.
As a hiker and a diver, man did they make this watch for me. I can’t wait until the next version comes out so I can get this one for cheaper lol
Watch is cool. But your heart rate is amazing. ❤
Waiting for the black anodised version, and I require training readiness, training load and recovery metrics.
Is this watch worth extra money over series 8 45 mm
I see myself using this for work . The big buttons will help with work gloves on
Watch looks amazing.  But honestly if I’m on a multi day hike off the grid, I’m not going to rely on Apple Watch w a 2-3 day battery life. Suppose it works for some scenarios though.
I really wan to know how good it does with dust and water combos
They should do a "sport" version of the Apple watch, same everything as the Apple watch 8,  just change the look to round, like a regular or Garmin, Amazfit & G shock, i use iPhone, but i would use Samsung or pixel watch if i could if was compatible, so since i hate the design of the apple watch, mostly the shape, i go with Garmin, Amazfit & G shock since work well with iPhone, but i would go with the Apple watch if they change the shape and look, that is the only reason why i don't have the Apple watch, and i am sure i am not alone. In my opinion they would sell even more if they do that.
I’m getting one asap! I hate that I got the series 8!
“Ended that day going to sleep with about 69% battery….nice..” lol. Sold me already 😂.
Pls do video, how Apple "Copy" products are made
Finally Apple made really nice looking finally BIG watch for MEN, I don’t like the regular Watch design but still have it, ordering Ultra 100%
I have a tiny wrist, the smallest bands are even too big for me and the ultra still looks good on my wrist. It doesn’t look obnoxiously huge.
ill buy it when they drop an all black version
Only silver killed it for me. I'm v large Dood so was really excited for the bigger sizes.. I just wanted a regular black AW with a bigger size.
How does the AW handle a feature like "Fall Detection" when you're playing a sport like Ultimate Frisbee since you're diving and hitting the ground? Does it call 911 or something without you realizing it? I read things about the crash detection having false flags during rollercoaster rides for example.
Can’t afford it ! but loved it ❤️
I see myself using this for work
Hi Marques, As I await delivery of my Ultra (aka Pro, LOL) I am watching YouTube videos to get ready.  I am in that far outer circle for a different reason.  I have Lupus and hypersensitive skin, so have had to resell my previous Apple Watch, Android Watch, and two Fitbits, due to allergies.  I hope and pray this one will be "the one" I can tolerate, due to the Titanium and ceramic construction, along with the woven band.  Who would think those silicone bands cause irritation?!
As a user who bought the watch bought the Ultra on release10months ago here's my review
- As someone who doesn't dive or hike extensively, the Ultra is much better than the 3 for me. It tracks and warns activity much better like when I was watching a horror movie and it warned my high rate was high.
- I bang my arm on loads of things like walls and stuff and my Ultra is still absolutely pristine with no scratches and comparatively my poor 3 has a huge gash after 1 year of use. 
- Many of the cycling features are unnecessary. I have a Wahoo and sensors on my bike that basically has all the metrics I need including GPS. Apple Watch can't communicate with the cycling computer really limits the use of this during cycling. It's a little useful if you don't have a speedometer or RPM sensors but are you gonna keep looking at your wrist when you cycle? Probably not and thus it's not useful.
Still using an Apple Watch 3. Think I’ll hold on to it for another year.
I never liked how the Apple Watch looked so tiny. This I can fuck with. I’m definitely getting this. The look is dope
@marques , could you tell me what pen you are using in this video 😂. Thanks
Do you swap it from left to right and back?
I find that you should only call something "Pro" when it is for professional use.
Meaning that the activity/job constitutes making the majority of your income.

Also known as the defenition of professional.
The thing i dont like about apple watches is that every apple update it messes up all my alarms and schedules. Frustrating missing alarms and appointments
I was wishhing that they would release smaller size this year
“Ultimate frisbee player”. Lol
I see the athleticism too haha. Never had an Apple Watch but have been an iPhone user since the 4. The 13 is heavy af so I need the watch to workout
Here's how you dress it down. I bought one yesterday, before seeing this video. Mine has a black band. With the "always on" display turned OFF, the face pure black. Only the frame is titanium silver-colored. Looks very dressy like this
The watch would have to somehow connect to your air tank to read air pressure. There’s no way to accurately measure air consumption by timing it
love big watches
As a Hunter that hikes a lot the way point feature is very attractive
Plz review MI watches 7 pro specially
Where did you find Nike running band for the ultra? Or can I use the 45mm? Thx
I had 100% on Monday morning, on Thursday night i was at 15% 🔥
Where did you get that Falcon Heavy shirt?   Has a bit of an Atari look.
Hi, i like it and i want to use it as my daily watch for Apple Pay and other . Despite using a Samsung Z Fold 2 as my phone,  i still want to use Apple Pay i am thinking to setup it with my old iPhone 11 and then just use it without the iPhone . If anyone did this can you please shre your experience.
I never owned an Apple Watch until I saw the Ultra! I was waiting for something special to put on my wrist and I guess this is it! I’ll be testing it soon on Scafell Pike mountain in England. Why is it so expensive in the UK, it’s £850 = $1050
How long to fully charge the ultra?
What kind of membership access comes with the membership?
I also think professional travelers and casual travelers will appreciate that they can be without a charger for a weekend trip or overnight business trip.
I have a question can you download like You tube and asphalt and other apps
i don’t wear watches, but ultra is so good i am tempted to buy
I wouldn’t be surprised if in the future all Apple Watches came with the Action button. As a developer, I would be very happy if my users could press one button and open my app 😊
Can you please tell me what I will not have with no cellular?only calls and the option not have my phone with me?I ask cause I might buy an Apple Watch ultra from USA to use it in Europe
my fenix 5x from 2017 gets like 2 weeks between charges lol
Seems like a PRO review on a non PRO watch!
Way to give it a (PR)GO!!!
How good is the heart rate monitor? Especially with arrhythmias? like AF?
Personally, price isn’t crazy since I’m already in the Garmin universe.  I just can’t justify this one because lack of cycling power meter support which is a huge L.  And the battery life can’t compare to a garmin either.  You don’t need Apple Watch functionality (or want it TBH) when backpacking 5+ days….I’m really glad Apple entered this space though!  Garmin hasn’t had great competition and has been getting by with sub standard software for far too long.
Thanks to this video I’ve come to the conclusion that the Ultra is the smart watch that seems to be the best for me
8:41 - My dive computer has no monthly subscription... oceanic+ does
8:58 - Air Integration IS Tank pressure monitoring... and you don't get it from Apple Watch, and I'm not a super extreme technical diver and use it All the time!
Yeah  i'll stick to my Longines Master, it might not be a smartwatch but it's a watch that goes well with any clothing.
Also we have smartphones why do we need smartwatches just asking.
Once I found out that this watch could go underwater and while scuba diving give you your decompression times ...... I was in
Can you change the rainbow color settings on the burned calories counter?
I’m goin g to go buy one today ‘
now I understand the machine learning push by apple
I have the Samsung galaxy watch 5 and it lasts me easily 3-5 days depending on usage
Samsung frontier is black and works very well with being a rugged watch.
I've literally got two of these sat untouched in the boxes, bought on a whim but after finding out how terrible the battery life is (5 year old Huawei watch will last over a week), they will stay in the boxes.
I've not heard of this watch before, when I first saw one the other day I thought it was a apple watch in some sort of aftermarket case.
Anyway it's too big, fugly and expensive.
For that money I'd get a Garmin epix gen 2.
emergency services? , In there website they have shown series 5 ( gps + cellular) , series 6 ( gps + cellular) , series 7( gps + cellular) and only series 8 , without mentioning gps + cellular.
Can we appreciate that catch tho 13:00
You wear your watch on the right hand. I’m surprised you didn’t use it in inverted mode so the crown was on the left and easier to access
Just bought one. An absolute masterpiece. 

One thing that stinks! I have had many Samsung watches and the Pixel watch. When you make a call on the Apple Watch you can not multitask. You have to end the call to move about other functions ? On the Samsung and Pixel watch no problem. I like to walk and make calls and while on a call I want to check my heart rate activity stats etc.  CANT! C’mon now.
Let's forget about the apple watch and just admire marques's video quality !
There is one point I would like to find out that "Apple Watch Ultra" is targeting extreme weather sports.  I just wonder that how "the battery design" ~ facing those conditions !? Are they using Enduro Battery Design !?
Ultimate frisbee player... thats a sport now lol
As an apple fan i have everything they offer except mac pro. And i love everything! But!
I couldn’t force myself to wear apple watch for more than few weeks. I tried twice, but failed.
Useless apps that you cannot delete, no battery life. IIrritating fact that they repeat all the notices from iphone though, i anyway use the iphone to read them comfortably.
But with Garmin Solar Titanium 7 i’m happy.
They do not annoy me. Their battery is 21 day long. They measure my health 24/7. They are light and durable. Look like new after a year.
Sorry, Apple, but thats true for me. 
Your fan!
May i know how what watch face are you using
Why do you switch the wrist it’s on throughout the day?
How does this watch do compared to a suunto 9 baro watch?
Very diplomatic review . No wonder he has 17 million subscribers !!
This watch is an OVERKILL  for 99% of the people  :))
I don’t even use my Apple Watch Ultra for workouts anymore, it keeps locking on me because it thinks it’s off of my wrist since I have tattoos on my wrist, therefore, it blocks the optical reader. It is completely annoying and the only way to stop it is to take off the Apple Pay, but then it still won’t read my heart rate. My Garmin Fenix 7x sapphire solar’ heart rate only works if I push it below the knob on my wrist, but the Garmin pay always works and the watch never locks on me. Also, the Apple Watch doesn’t count reps in the gym and that’s ridiculous! I where my Garmin to support me on Workouts and the Apple ultra for day to day. When I’m not working out, I strap the Garmin to my ankle so I can still get the metrics. Not to mention the battery life is so much better on the Garmin I’m an amateur athlete, but my workouts can last up to 6 hours with a long run, boxing, biking and weights. I also compete in ultramarathons, and I will only trust my Garmin for that.
Seems pretty cool. But I still live in the area where a mechanical watch is my favorite.
They should give an option to lock a feature like locking the dive feature and then give like a month of battery life cause most people using this watch are pros in just one sport...not all.
For me this is too little to late. The garmin fenix 6 was able to give 2 weeks of battery life 3/4 years ago. I don’t understand why apple still don’t introduce a technology like the eco drive from Citizen that allows to charge with the sun, it might be not enough to arrive to the point that we never charge it but it might allow to arrive to 4/5 days with a 40mm case size.
This watch is great but I use my scuba diving watch for my scuba diving classes
Yeh but casio doesnt run apps or have a bright as screen
My ultra died after snorkeling.
Marques: This is for those people on the outskirts of my illustration who do a lot of intensive stuff.
The spoiled kid in my class: I have 2 of them.
( He actually does me being the tech nerd called his bluff and yep they were legit)
Shud hav made it round 💥
Would be great if smartwatches could charge itself due to a small solar panel thing in the screen.
The problem of the AWU is that those small groups of people at which the Ultra pretends to aim at  (the ones that do a lot high performance sports) have better alternatives than the Ultra, like the Garmin Epix for example (which is more expensive I gotta say, but at the same time, a more complete option for swimmers, cyclist, climbers, divers, etc). So the Ultra may not be even satisfying that small group of users. I think the AWU is pointless.
14:04 if you’re worried about your wrist size, don’t sweat it. I’ve been self conscious about my wrists my entire life because they’re pretty damn thin. But the Apple Watch ultra really doesn’t look that big even on my wrist.
Garmin has been doing this and so much more for a long time
I find these smart watch thingies kinda redundant, I would perhaps care when they last for at least a week, which even that feels way too short a battery life for what they are trying to replace.
This could have been almost perfect if this watch is also Solar powered same with Gshock watches!
Got my series 7 nike edition to replace my series 2 . It is good for me till 2028 or 2030. ❤
I got a Apple Watch from aliexpress £27 ok not the same os as ultra but does everything else make calls sms heart rate etc the mark up on the ultra is obscene for what it is
Thank you for the review, I don't want an apple watch because basically every other watch has better battery life. I mainly care about sleep tracking, ability to tell time/date, and battery life. ~$800 after taxes so I can now respond to iMessage and have the absolute bare minimum acceptable battery life is frustrating, but hopefully the Watch 20 will have solar charging.
If they could just make the standard apple watch model the same size as this I would get it. Standard Apple watch is too small. This watch at its size with a titanium band is absolutely beautiful and looks like a proper watch on the wrist. Ill wait for the price to drop on this.
Can it measure blood glucose? Or still not available?
Bro can you do a hello watch review
Dude, what's with the scar on your hand? How/when did that happen?
I love to hike, but my biggest fear is getting lost in the woods. I think this will be very beneficial for my needs
If you want the ultimate diving, rugged watch Seiko Marinemaster is still the benchmark and it only costs 
3300$.
I still have a series 4 and I swear it always dies in like 3 hours with light use lol
Maybe there is another one one the  way
Is Apple car play can by use with the watch, without the iPhone?
Im wondering why Apple dont just add Solar auto recharging capabilities just like Casio ?
I need to know how can you hear a siren from a quarter mile away coming from such a small device
Watch 😉 my OG Casio😂
The biggest problem with this video and review -

I am an android user and watching this video is almost convincing me to become an apple user. 

PS - Reviews don't have to be this awesome.😢😢❤❤
How’d you get the Mars bar on your hand?
will apple make a apple watch ultra 2?
Meanwhile my series 7 can barely make it the whole day (relatively new, bought it back in July of this year) with just a bit of use
In hungary this watch is around 1210usd and 1260usd, converted. Its crazy
Apple gone crazy with their products prices .. an 800$ for a watch!! That's robbery.
Expecting the Apple Watch Ultra Pro.
And then, the Apple Watch Ultra Pro Max.
Why is the watch switching between his left and right arm for every shot?
Yep, 2-days. I can charge on day one (around 8am) and run it that day, the evening, full day, another evening and charge the following morning. You could say '3 Days' ... however, it's clearly a two full-day watch battery. Two-and-a-bit if you let it run down below 20%.
I know this is old but if you did not know this, titanium cannot be anodized in black. That is why people use PVD coatings.
Lol they finally did it. I’ve been in apple ecosystem for a while but I don’t find the apple watch really helpful. The old watches won’t even last a marathon or ultramarathons that takes 10+hours that’s why most runners I know spend on pricey Garmin or Suunto multisport watch. This is also the reason why I stick with my miband for now because I prefer the sleep and heart rate tracking functionality with battery lasting 5-7 days. Don’t know, will check it maybe in the future. I am already lazy charging my phone, airpods and macbook. I prefer if they can build the watch battery to last one week cuz yah know, it’s just a watch lol.
Does it have oled burn in?
13:06 This looks like the frisbee version of American Football.😂😂
the pro is for the people who can afford it
i had a friend with a iphone 13 pro... he didnt know u can switch betwen apps by swiping left and right on the bottom of the phone
Damn dude 3 hours of ultimate is a LOT of running!
Though it has all the ruggedness and features, I simply enjoy how it looks.
It's cool, but it's also going to be trash in a few years when you want an upgrade. I would actually be interested in this watch if it was more of a life time, or 20 year proposition where the internal components could be updated. Paying this much money for something which will be obsoleted next year seems weird to me.

Seems like an expensive toy...I do have a Garmin Forerunner 945, I get weeks of battery and I love it, it's a "smart watch" but it's also kind of dumb, and feels like something I could have for a long time, although I guess the battery will go sooner or later and it will be headed for the landfill.
But Pro inclines that if you're not a professional, you might as well do with one of the lesser ones, or that it is used by professionals... Ultra defines it's the best without having to doubt if you have to be a professional or use it for professional use :P
Do you think that Apple will make an Ultra 2 next year 2023?
you can watch videos on it now...sold
This watch is amazing! The only downfall for me was the size. Did anyone not think that a female would want this? If it’s big on a man it’s was even bigger when I tried it on. Pls make more sizes 😫
I got it for the battery life.
A couple things: 
1. Sleep tracking is useless. You don’t need a watch to tell you if you had a good nights rest and it feels uncomfortable wearing a watch while sleeping. I find it unnecessary.
2. Battery life is overrated. At least in the aspect of comparing 60 hours to 1 week like other watches. It takes literally zero effort to put the device on a charger at night. 
3. This watch isn’t even big. Its also still light. Garmin & Suunto are literally monsters and twice the price. Can’t justify spending 1500 for a smartwatch but the 800 is just right. I mean there are people who spend 2k on a regular watch that does nothing but tell time. 

Having said that, I’m considering this now too. I have the series 7 but the face is already scratched from kayaking trips and kettlebells. I hike in warmer months and the extra battery is good for camping trips when I’m outside for 2 days but definitely don’t need a weeks worth of battery, but a weekends worth is perfect. The waypoint is definitely a game changer.
The price difference is not that much differnet from the apple watch 8 stainless steel so I would say the ultra is a better choice.
Looks huge but I think that's the point
13:07 that was awesome
Marques is the GOATTTT
Can I check what is your wrist size? You seem to have a small wrist, similar to me but I’m afraid it will be too big for me
I love the Apple Watch Ultra
I know this is an older video and you probably won’t see this but I just realized that your left handed like me yet you haven’t set your watch up this way. This would fix the issue of you pressing the action button on accident.
why is the apple watch battery so bad. I have a mi band 7 and I can go at least 5 to 6 days on one charge even with auto display and heart monitor and whiles sleep tracking on .
I love apple but my Fitbit goes 8 days between charge.
Dang it, I want one
Send it in we can color it any color u want with engravings
If's a Ultra2 come out all black, they will have my money. Is the only thing preventing me to switch from SE to the Ultra
A “pro” AirPods Pro user is in fact a person who owns the premium subscription on every music streaming service
Great tutorial. However800.$$$ fir what I can get for about 165.$$ by buying the Amazfit gts 4. Same features and battery life is phenomenal. I can charge to 100% and leave on for about 6 days w/o charging. For the money, and battery life I went with the Amazfit gts 4.
I have to say something. I’ve been using apple watch 5 since its release. The display has cracked and crown was gone over this time. One fixed from pocket, one fixed by apple. If I had an ultra, these won’t be happen. I’m just a normal everyday user. It’s only 100€ difference between steel version of series 8 and ultra. So if the design is ok, there is no excuse for using apple watch series 8
but especially in the (premium) watch market people tend to totally overspec. like how many people actually dive down to 300m (~1000ft)? basically no one at all, but look at how many people are willing to pay a premium for a watch that can do that?
How did you get twitter on your watch?
Ultra suits is way more than pro. ‘Pro’ with Apple isn’t really that, the MacBook Pro is so much less than which I would confided pro. Saying that, I have one and I’m a total Apple fan girl, looking forward to getting the Ultra ❤
How to use with Galaxy flip  5 ?
Waiting for that apple watch omnitrix ultimate ultra series 10 +
Is the wrist band washable ?
Definitely reminds me of a marine diver watch
I really don’t get why apple are not using solar energy?
Seiko use it
It will get better n better....my only concern is the battery life. I mean how can I threw away CASIO ProTrekker......I dont have to charge it, you know.  Casio needs to bring in some apps stuff etc etc or This Apple dude is going to hurt them. Because these folks are Blingy & all over the Internet.
It’s worth it.  Great device.
what's the story or your hand scar? looks like a broken metacarpal?
It is not named “Pro” because it is not the “Pro”, since there is already an orthodox and flagship version of Apple Watch no less pricy: Apple Watch Stainless Steel.
they should try making the ultra longer battery maybe 5 days or up maybe all will drool on the watch. i will want it if its 5days. 2 days is ok but lets be practical
The charging thing is why I won’t ever buy a smart watch seiko do kinetic watches for much less but look much nicer
2K Calories Burning 🥵 That’s a real flex right there.
0:19 What watch face marques is using here ?
I went into the Apple store in Glasgow, Scotland yesterday to look at the Apple Ultra watch. Apparently they only stock the model with the concrete bezel 'cause this thing weighs a ton. "Attractive to marathoners and triathletes"? No. If Eluid Kipchoge had worn the Apple Ultra to try the sub 2 hour marathon he'd have been lucky to break 2 days nevermind 2 hours. Nice watch, does all the gimmicky Apple stuff but I'll stick with my Garmin 945. Does ALL the marathon and Triathlete stuff, light as a feather and can't even remember the last time I charged it but it was way longer than 2 days ago. Did enjoy the video tho'
I really think the Apple Watch Ultra is cool, but I have one main criticism: CALL IT THE APPLE WATCH PRO. Naming consistency? What’s that?
I said "nice" at the exact same time you did haha
I don’t like black accessories anymore now that I have glaucoma and cataracts.  I prefer brighter colors.
Bro DT No.1 Chinese Company making Exact High Class Clones of these Apple Watches ....95% less Price ... Amazing Features ...very Popular in Asia These Days
Wish they would do a iPhone ultra with a huge battery some of us don’t care about having the thinnest lightest phone eh
They need something for Pilots!!!
I think that there will be runners or hikers or even divers buying these watches but honestly it's just a cool watch so I think most of them will be sold to people that don't mind spending a lot of money for the latest must have gadget from Apple. If I had $800 burning a hole in my pocket I would buy one just to have it.
After 12 strokes,  let's hope it can sense Afib in time.  Friend just died from stroke despite fancy watch.
This is how all Apple Watch batteries should be!
I recently purchased a Series 8 for $329.00. I see an extremely small segment of users needing anything more.
Can anyone comment on the emf, RF radiation this thing puts out?
There seem to be quite a few videos measuring the radiation levels and claiming these things are harmful as they’re directly worn on the skin. Some comments say it causes irritation and pain as well.
Are these things dangerous to wear long term?
What apple should do just to make more profit is, make an ultra case for the series 9 that makes it 80% as durable as the ultra, and the case alone is over $100, the apple way.
How is the accuracy of calories burned ??
If you use the watch with multiple features, it is not going to last for 2 days and nights. And so, emergency features like the Siren are not as effective for them. I wish they came with a solar edition, but they won’t. Why would they want to kill their annual ritual of launching new versions?
Love Apple Watches but the battery needs to be better, much better.
Worth it 😊
That was a time when it would’ve been worth it, but I don’t think so today. 🤷‍♂️
Yeah my cousin got in a paramotoring accident and he had this watch and the siren saved his life for people on the road to here he had crashed
This watch good but problem
 very Big 49mm very Big
1100 CDN
Tag Heuer Connected e$ if you wanna throw the disc.
Nice
If smartwatch features are top priority, Apple Watch, for sure.  If fitness tracking and endurance training is top priority, Garmin, for sure.
The one deal breaker for me is the square body
- “69% battery … nice” 
Marques has humor 😅
It's worth every single penny.  I have yet to see ANYONE actually try this on their wrist and then return it.  It's an amazing watch.  Anyone talking trash on it has either never touched one, it's too big for their wrist or they hate Apple.
My friend bought it and I put it on my tiny wrist hilarious 😭
There is a new Apple Watch being released
i wish Apple sold the Apple watch ultra in jet black from the iPhone 7 Plus. It would be great time to reintroduce that color with the Apple Series X and the Ultra 2. maybe they’ll bring back jet black with the Apple Watch Ultra 2
Wore my ultra for a 40th birthday in Ibiza. It died on the first day at nikki beach. Its currently back with apple who have no idea whats wrong with it.
I wish the Apple Watch Ultra was €800 in Europe.
I purchased an Apple Watch Series 8 - 45 mm version on December 31, 2022. Today is January 25, 2023 and yesterday on January 24, 2023. I have never regretted a purchase in less than a month in my life until now, of course. I decided to purchase the Apple Watch ultra. I sorely regret buying the Apple Watch series 8. I loved the fact that it was 45 mm however the fact that the ultra just made this thing look so outdated that I literally now have spent $1200 almost for a freaking watch. The sad thing is I have zero regrets about it. 

  The Apple Watch ultra lasts for three days, my Apple Watch Series 8 lasted a day and a quarter and it be time to charge but not nearly dead so I think I could get about a day and a night in about another half of a day going into the night without it dying completely. I do not have those worries North thoughts with my Apple Watch ultra, I know I'm gonna get a saw it 3 1/2 days but I know somewhere in there I'll throw it on the charger for 20 or 30 minutes or so so it'll never truly ever have to die. 

  So to be honest all those extra features don't mean shit because I don't use them anyway, I am more concerned with the heart and health features along with the workout. Elements in the mindfulness features. I could give a flying fuck about diving I just want this thing to last. I got my goddamn wish all praise to the Lord Chuck Norris.
I notice that literally right before a race my earbuds or Spotify or the watch OS on my ULTRA literally stops working like bad Karma and starts working again after I don't need it any more.   Happens with older versions of the OS and models of watch.   Marathons, Triathlons and 7 mile runs.  It just fails.  I just put the apple ear buds away and say fuck it since the race has started.     FAIL
I still prefer the series 4 design…it’s more sleek unlike this that’s way too bulky imo.
Whoa re you wearing it on your wrist like that above the bone?
i want this design in 41mm and just call it pro
Battery life wouldn't have been nearly as good if theatre mode wasn't on the whole time
Are you not taking it off to charge after a 3 hour practice for a shower?
body fat % would be awesome if the put one in  maybe nect year .
If your right handed why isn’t your watch on the left hand ?
9:48 BAYBAY!
Wooo where can I find this cute bonzai sakura in the background
I almost went with this one but quickly asked the price and if I’d utilize it. The associate in the store was super helpful and not pushy and recommended I get the 8. Plus, I have really thin wrists so the ultra probably wouldn’t have fit well on there. My current watch is 45mm and is just right.
I’m dating myself but this reminds me of the old Casio calculator watches from back in the day.
12:17 “I will link the episode specifically below the like button, so you can listen to it” 😅
Is this your main watch?!
They need to make an ultra sized for average wrist sizes. This one is too bulky for people like me unfortunately 🙄
What the Apple Ultra only needs is to be Solar. Once that's done, they'll be at the top of the smartwatch industry.
Can I pair it  with Samsung phone.
My only worry about skipping this watch for next years watch ultra is that the price will either raise or they'll keep the s6 2020 chip for a fourth year in a row. But I'm definitely waiting and I'm hoping next years ultra has exclusive features to the ultra, with more colour options, even smaller bezels, being able to see more with the big screen instead of the same as 45mm where even though the 49mm ultra is bigger, you're seeing the same content where as you're seeing less on the 41mm. An actual new chip in it will be great too. One thing I know apple won't do is give us the option to choose what colour the action button will be. I would have picked red action button with navy blue or black casing.

Big hope is for a new chip inside instead of a rebranded one like they did last year and this year. Even smaller bezels and more features. Longer battery life. 36 hours is not enough. It may be for others but it genuinely isn't. More watch faces. Wired charging for longer battery health
why are you wearing it on the right hand?
You are misunderstanding the appeal of a larger watch. But thanks for the detail.
why does the Apple Watch on the title screen look like the duolingo bird coming for me.
Ulyimate frizzbie practice?
Seems to be the ideal technology to have especially all of those Californians stuck in the snow for weeks and can be located via satellite
Those people on the outskirts use Garmin Fenixes. Ugh! I'd love an Ultra but I wish it wasn't a square! That's the only reason that I'll probably get another Garmin.
3 hour ultimate frisbee practice? 🤨
I just bought it b/c I don't want to forget to charge it and be SOL
I need at least a week of battery life before thinking of spending the price they’re asking.
0:10 “GOD DAMN”
Look Cool Full Size For Man
Google really dropped the ball. We have so many watches out and what we got is a "meh"-"decent" first watch... But they're up against this. They've had years *sigh*
Ah, finally. Something that might withstand the army
how big are your wrists? i have skinny wrists so just wondering for context
What is the lifespan?
biggest draw for me is that fact that it looks way better than the normal apple watch. I can't see myself buying the normal one and none of the alternatives have the same connectivity. Just sucks that I have to pay 800 for a better looking apple watch.
As a military in battle
"I ended that day going to sleep with about 69% battery. Giggity."
I don’t need a smart watch yet. My old Casio still is enough. Cash is not an issue.
Can I just get the beats off your videos lol
I climb mountains and ever since I saw this watch I have wanted it. Sadly since I am still in high school I am broke.
If they can add Apple fitness videos on the watch that would be well worth the difference! In my opinion
It’s the battery…if you want an apple watch, you’d like to wear it all day, then wear through the night at times to monitor sleep and health for the benefits it is designed to provide without charging it every day..
What is this song.
This is the best watch I have ever seen. The designer of this watch need to be promoted or replace the CEO of apple who keep giving us same phone design for decades. We need new, rugged, strong, long lasting with smooth UI like IOS inside.
And there are some of people like me who can't afford it 😅.
Apple should think about them as well.
Bummer that I won’t be able to make it work with my outfit for the Met Gala…
quite frankly i dont know how ultra marathoners or cyclists can use this the battery at best is 30 Hours without any functions, If you use the GPS or any other fuction when working out i am guessing at best get 7 hours of battery life for longer races this without a recharge is tough..
No Solar Power Seems A Bit Odd Especially The Size Of The Watch
Honestly, the battery life is the sole reason I’ve never owned a smart watch. Regular watches last years and years
nice
And you changed watch straps THREE times in that short period of two days and two nights?!😮😊
This would be awesome for military tbh
I was looking for something like this In better design, finally apple re leased , now I can pair it with my iPhone 👍🏻
Wait, you wear your watch on your right arm?
Bro you sleep with the watch on ? Man I hope your protecting your self from all the EMF waves my guy!
Not yet..I have two Apple Watches, but Garmin Fenix 6x Pro is my watch. It gives me 3 weeks of juice. For that price, I want at least 1 week of juice from Apple Watch, and not 2 days.
The thing is not everyone has big wrists and these watches are small also these watches are unaffordable
Where are the time stamps ?
I thought I would be in to this watch. Using it the same as my other Apple Watch, the battery won’t last until evening the first day. The cellular doesn’t work well enough to use alone without the phone. Spotify wouldn’t work with my AirPods, I could only play music I had downloaded to my watch. The workout app constantly pauses right in the middle of my workout. I left my phone in the locker at the gym with cellular, Bluetooth and Wi-Fi turned off and my watch kept trying to play music on it (successfully) instead of my AirPods. It’s a cool looking watch though and it’s not a huge watch like I keep hearing everyone say. If you think it’s huge you should probably eat more protein or something because you obviously have tiny, dainty wrists.
I've had my Watch Ultra for around four months and, knowing what I now know, I wouldn't buy it again. Leaving price aside (extortionate) the biggest fail is the 'phone' capability => there's lag of up to 10 seconds on calls (which makes natural conversation almost impossible), calls where only one party can hear the other (hang up, try again), and (frequently) calls which don't even reach the Watch (it doesn't even ring). Unpairing and re-pairing the Watch with my iPhone 13 (IoS and Watch OS are both fully up to date) cures the problem for a day and then the problems recur. Calling capabilities are therefore, effectively, useless. Battery life and health functionality are nothing to shout about => my wife's Garmin has pretty much the same features, excellent integration with IoS, and a longer battery life, yet cost her less than £300. IN my experience Watch Ultra is over-hyped and under-performs.
Wow 👍🏼
Love the battery but I still want more battery life a whole weeks' worth of battery! and it should still only take a hour to charge good luck apple
I'm the one who is out of your paper people 😂
Like people have time to recharge a watch 😮
Still doesn't have enough battery to do a full triathlon. Sticking with sports watches like the Garmin who own this option.
Hmm
Nice ❤
So the Apple Watch ultra finally explains why we have so many diver deaths, especially cave divers 👍 nice one Tim
Skinny wrist? I reckon it looks perfect bro :D
Casio have different technology .
I can’t wait for Gary Rig to bust one of these open😂
Ill stick to my Tag Heuer E4 ..
I am not a fan of smartwatches. I am a fan of regular watches with several features.
It’s funny cause I’ve see more average users buy the ultra compared to the crowd that it’s directed to, maybe it’s time Apple updates the Apple Watch design
Pro Ultra is next-generation
Is that fair... moneygame pur how
The fact that he price on this watch is not so far from the pro or the pro max is not worth it and you didn’t mention that for the divers you need the payed version of the app
The only thing its not timeless like an actual watch this thing will be out the door in 5 years when they stop signing it apple watch 3 - Sept 2017 released 👌
Do yourself a favour get any swiss automatic and youll appreciate it your whole life
Overkill and expensive cost around SGD$1,210.00 . And how long can the apple watch can last ?
Intro starts at 0:58
It’s called Ultra to lure the Ultra Running Community to buy this watch. Currently, the Ultra Running community uses Garmin, Coros, or something else other than Apple.
I think you’re missing part of your steering wheel
Just get a black case if you want it in black
Hold up. You just did not just say the Casio G-Shock never been charged  please tell me you didn’t say that. You also called it the solar watch. Hey genius solar charging is a form of charging the battery. Wow!
Does it come in black - Batman.
Bro, the apple commercial made it look like the battery would last for a month. Only 2 days?
I just wanted the ultra for the large face and durability
The extended battery is one of the few things that I actually like about this device. It’s overrated and overpriced. The hand washing feature doesn’t work most of the time. I want a smaller watch with a better battery and blood glucose monitoring!
No serious recreational diver should ever use the apple watch as the main dive computer. Not when one's life literally depends on it. It didn't even include apple proprietary dive app at introductions which is an additional reason not to use as main unit.
Apple just stopped pairing the series3 with the phones! Without even notifying the customers. So I paid a 500 on a watch and someone just decided they don't want me to use it anymore? That's outrageous. I won't buy another one.
It's really a device, like all other smart "watches. It will never be a watch that increases in value like an actual watch.
The sapphire display on the Apple Watch Ultra is not pure sapphire meaning it still scratches where regular gorilla glass would. Apple should not be claiming that it has a sapphire display because of this.
This thing looks f*ckn awesome
Marques to his in-laws one day: "So I've been married to your daughter for about a week now, here's my review."
The rings you put bro are wrong in my opinion. The rings are dependent on how much cash you have, not what you desire.
No way, mine 24 hours and got it down to 37percent no way is going to last me 2 more days
I love how they Used Ultra for this Watch and how everything about this watch is different from the others and I am coming from a 7 Nike and SE
I have that skinny wrist going on too. lol This thing looks massive on me but that's okay.
I'm leaving Android just for this watch.  Exactly what i'm looking for.
I like the look of apple watches, I also owned an apple watch. But tbh I think it is just a bit gimmick. I don't care about my heart rate during the day. Notifications make me look on the watch, I see the notification, and then I grab my iphone and still have the phone in my hand. So it took two steps to respond instead of one. And the activity rings... Come on people. Just live healthy, you know what is healthy. Take a walk everyday or go out for a run. and just enjoy the activity. for the real competitive athletes, I assume a heartratesensor for on your torso is super accurate and costs somewhere around $/€ 50. Just don't be so crazy to buy an a watch of €800 that becomes obsolete in a couple of years.
Tldr: no
I have everything pro now I’m totally Mac out 😂😂
Practice?
This watch is so uncomfortable to wear I’m going to have to go back to my apple 6 . On occasion my hands fall a asleep and when I take it off it leaves marks on my skin.
I find it hard to believe that someone buying a watch for the purpose of running an ultra marathon would choose this over a Garmin, Coros or Polar
Ugh watching people wear their watch on the right arm irks me for some reason…sorry.  Great review though, I’ve had an Apple Watch for a while now, but I’m thinking its time to upgrade finally…
I love my Ultra, want it bigger lol haha
I’m a normal user and I got the ultra.
IMHO No matter what Apple does to the watch to beef it up, it doesn't come close to Garmin Fenix 7x Sapphire. (Solar).
The Apple Watch ultra would actually be smaller than my current 55mm diameter 10mm tall bulky Watch. That is, if I had enough money to buy it. I think I’ll just get a regular watch.
The Apple Watch ultra would actually be smaller than my current 55mm diameter 10mm tall bulky Watch. That is, if I had enough money to buy it. I think I’ll just get a regular watch.
my watch lasts 18 days on 1 charge though
That steering wheel is like nails on a chalkboard.
I'm now using a 44mm Apple Watch Series 5 and it is quite big on my wrist already. The Apple Watch Ultra is going to look ridiculous on my wrist.
For scuba diving, don't be deceived-the watch industry is kind of deceptive with their depth ratings. A WR100 sounds like you can dive to 100ft but actually it's only rated for swimming or snorkelling. For scuba you need a watch rated WR200 or more. My current watch which I use to scuba dive is rated 20bar or 20 times atmospheric pressure. That's what's needed to scuba dive.
As an astronaut, I don't think I can bring that in space
We can all agree that almost everyone who bought this watch (tech youtubers included), bought it simply as an upgrade to the Apple watch they already owned.
For some reasons watches are tied to whrist and not to hands
7 million views imagine the bank account 😅
Still find it funny they used the ultra name (galaxy top of the line model) and galaxy watch…pro(iPhone top of the line name ) 😂😂😂
After owning a Garmin Fenix, every other smart watch batteries feels like a joke to me. This thing literally took days to kill, could last between 7-14 days
Maybe someone asked this and it’s certainly none of my business, but what happened to your hand? It looks like you got a nice scar there. Just out of curious is all.
i think that a segment of people who will most likely never buy a apple watch are the watch enthusiast people, ironically. people who buy watches for their glamour and long term investment/value and fashion. and because of this buying an apple watch doesn't really fit within that world because a, you need to wear it daily which means that you wont be wearing your other fancy watches. and b, it'll be obsolete in 5 years, meanwhile "old fashioned" watches can be handed down across generations.
Nice review, MB, and very much appreciated.  One observation in passing, why does a bright and articulate individual with a B.S. from a respected university  propagate the wincingly common grammatical error of using "There’s" in a plural context?  I know, I know, everybody’s doing it.  But, why?  🫤
I just fot it cause it looked cool 😅
I thought a viable reason for the fact it wasn't called Apple Watch "Pro", was the facts so many other smartwatches had the "pro" name now anyway. It's like iPhone 14 Pro, and S23 Ultra. Except it's switched now - Apple Watch "Ultra", Galaxy Watch 5 "Pro".
Then theirs me who just wants the best watch
Just throw a Hermes Band on it. When they come out dressed up
👨🏽‍🚀 as an astronaut the Ultra has come very handy specially to keep me anchored to mars surface it has some weight to it i am not bouncing all over like you see on TV, I plan to wear it on my next trip to Pluto. I’ll let you guys know how the cellular data does I am going to leave my cellphone here on earth and see if the cellular on my ultra still works to place phone calls. 😂
Saw what you did with that mountain! *cough* Andy Warhol *cough* 9:18
I switched from Samsung to iPhone so I could get this watch. I got it. What’s disappointing is it doesn’t function as a stand alone device for text message. Very disappointing.
Ultra expensive but definitely worth it for Apple and their shareholders.
Ahhh I thought my phone was dying @1:10 😅
AVIATION!!!
''the social dilemma'' is a real thing and you don't mind.
GOD DAMN😩😩
I’d prefer a minimalist look. 🤔🤔
I just want to be able to watch YouTube on it!!!!
If you want a series adventure watch just get a garmin, a 2 day battery life on a watch like this is simply not good enough
Way too big yes... the strap should definitely attach to the case from the middle of the body or even a tad higher so it tapers more naturally towards the wrist, and not as low as it is now. which makes it have the "computer on the wrist" look you perfectly said, which also looks kind of goofy. I agree that the normal apple watch in 45mm is big enough, and can be used in any setting. This Ultra... not so much.

I would design a bigger watch (but quite thinner), which is worn on the other side of the arm (and horizontally), and give me all the info I wanted by a turn of my arm. I mean that would be at least a "futuristic" thing.

btw... all these "Diver" watches from every brand, are just stupid... I mean, how much of the population is going to actually dive?. Instead of "diver" watches, they should be called "Marine", or what people really want "Waterproof" and that's it.
If you’re seeing this and considering buying using the Apple Card installments plan, know that Apple is changing installments from 24 equal payments to 12 equal payments after Aug. 15th 2023, so buy before then.
still gonna stick with my mechanic watch, haha
100m water resist means something different.
The battery kills it for me, I have gotten over a week battery life out of my Garmin watch.
For autistic and ADHD folks, the durability and battery life is much more appealing than the standard series watch considering the amount of problems with screens popping out and damage to the case
Looks like one of those Ben 10 device
For swim training it’s absolute useless. No auto pause. No alarms for every x-lanes when interval training.
Now Apple borrowing words from Samsung 🤣
800 $
That's much 😮
Did you say the siren feature can be heard from a quarter mile away? Sorry but I call BS.
The only special thing about apple watches is the price
10 meters under water is still pretty extreme lol. Average person doesn’t really go more than 3 ever
Big scar dude must been somethin
When I bought the watch I thought it’ll have a real ‘’Always On’’ and bright screen but it still dims like any other Apple Watch 😏
Fyi the calorie counter is just guessing
It's good but apple watch has lost their mind when it came to the price
Nice 🤘😇
I could get a s23 for that price and a phone does more than the watch can. I don't get way apple though it was a good idea to make the world's  most expensive smart watch.
I’d be surprised if this thing even tells the time at this point
Blows my mind they STILL haven’t added golf into the watch.
"pro" is for rich people, Marques, you just don't want to say that lol
Whata is that look like small hands  I want  ⌚️
I was gonna get this but then I found a Shrek digital watch where you open his mouth to see the time and it was only like $20 so I got Shrek watch instead.
Garmin  > Apple Watch.
That is great battery life, but $800, I don’t mind charging mine, lol
Can we scuba test ?
Garmin all day. I would never choose Apple if I could find anything comparable from another company.
How easy is it to break.
$800 watch battery should last at least a week lmao
Pretty shocked at how easy it was to chip my Series 7. Accidentally smacked it into a barbel.
So is it worth it?
Garmin gives two weeks of battery.
Calorie tracking on any type of watch/smartwatch is way way off. You have to cut that calories burned number in half, if not a quarter lol. It's literally THAT off.
At $800, the Apple Watch Ultra isn't for everyone. But its long battery life is unbeatable. Worth it for the right person!
the actually charge 99usd for a band
I much prefer the name Ultra for a lot of these consumer products. There's nothing professional about a pair of Bluetooth earbuds or headphones.
Get a hamilton khaki king for half.
00:15 “69% battery, nice” -MKBHD
You know he passed the point into the middle of nowhere because there was an orange safety cone.
why don't you say 2 days of battery instead 2 days 2 nights.
People who wear their watch on their right hand are insane
Even that Apple Watch Ultra isn't even close to the HUAWEI GT3 PRO watch series yet !!!!!
Why are people mad about the apple watch price? *Normal* watches cost 300 dollars to millions of dollars
Gah-Damn 😂😭 0:09
About same price as iPhone yup.
When the battery lasts two weeks, I'll Think about it.
What I got out of this review………




YOU BURNED 2K CALORIES IN ONE SITTING
are you left handed? why are you wearing it on the right?
2000 cal are 2 kcal 
One nip of Cola and you got more then that in...
Promoting 2 days of battery life gives me the shittiest feeling. It should be atleast a week, which other smart watch makers like fitbit and garmin offers.
You will never use 90% of apple watch features and applications. 
I switched to Garmin fenix solar titanium. They show time, they measure my health just like Apple or better. And yes! They last for almost a month!!!
5:51 is this a sponsored video ?
To me it's less of a watch, more of a wearable phone.
In India the same watch costs 1000 dollar thanks to custom department 😠😠
Who care why, it’s the best one from apple.   Always buy the best.
They haven’t made the pro yet 😅
Bruh never even said if he felt it was worth it or not him
as long as this thing looks square----hell no!  Square watches are a huge no no.  Watches are circular!  Time goes around an around.  F that!
It will be overkill for most normal people. If you’re an athlete or adventurer eg mountain climbing then yes this watch is for you and worth spending extra.
Huawei the King 👑 of the baterry life
Free Tibet
I would buy that watch only if it cost like 30 bucks. That's what it's worth for me. And how that's not gonna happen EVER, then I'm not buying it. I will not pay 800 USD plus for a freaking watch. haha
If Battery last for more than a week,  then its name is suitable otherwise it is just name ultra.
@mkbhd i was sold on the first minute! smh 🙆
But watches like Garmin fenix last for weeks... so what gives?
as a regular joe who just does weights 5 days a week and use my phone as a watch, I dont need one. Thanks
OG markach broun li
I have a 4 series. I’m a iron worker. And I beat the piss out of my watch. SWEAT, cold weather, hot humid weather. Everything. It’s taking a beating and only sits under my glove. Just died recently I think lol
It’s two day battery life bc Apple also intended regular consumers to go crazy for it. Lol
It’s not worthy for divers if it can’t monitor tank pressures 🤦🏾‍♂️🤷🏾‍♂️
Anymore this dude is basically a paid infomercial
pro means prototype for future models when apple use it this way . mr 17 mil tech guy with clearly a bit of bias
And then theres a garmin fenix7
Dam apple is saving the environment and reducing pakacage waste by making their products unaffordable
If you are lost in the woods, your best bet is to have a green laser and to signal SOS with it into the night sky
ultimate frisbee is not a sport
apple watch needs solar charging ability like garmin
The simple things I want my Apple Watch to do is calls, gps, WhatsApp , uber and upi transactions .
That's an ad. And comments from 'astronomers' are probably paid for promotions as well.
I would like this watch for ocean swimming and the longer battery life.  But I am female so that huge watch is not going to work. So that sux.
“If your wrists are big enough..” I guess that’s a no for me then haha I have pianist hands (bony like Jack skelington) and skinny wrists. I once looked up if there was a way to get more meaty hands and wrists 😅
Reason we don't use this watch is it's expensive
Or ppl that do construction like me. A tank
Just from the thumbnail it looks absurd on a wrist that small.  Do you have a small wrist or is it just enormous?
It's just more iJunk that iJunkies will pay waaayyyy too much for. LOL
Calorie counting on the watch is way off 😅
If it holds up to mustard it's worth it
I sold this watch and bought omega. Who needs this watch which will be obsolete in 5 years? omega will be valuable for hundreds of years.
I personally believe cell phones killed the use for any watch.
Ngl, I'm a hardcore android user... But the Apple watch has me thinking... And the (more or less) 3 days of battery has me hooked. Just need to buy an iPhone : /
Left wrist! Lol. Heart is further away from right wrist. That’s like having your thermostat at the complete opposite end of your house. Underwater depth then put it on your foot who cares 😂
you guys are allowed to wear apple watches during a match??

that's the only compelling "that isn't a sport" argument I've ever heard LOL
Finally has a Samsung battery but I’m not paying 800 for just a Samsung battery
great now i can track my mums heart rate something I wanted previously.
I will wait when it becomes solar powered.
I wish they would just ruggedize the normal watches.
Yo bro, just get a Garmin! Will be  10x better!
What’s up.
Ultra sounds better tbh. 😂😅
main users of this watch are apple fan boys with deep pockets, will ask Santa..🙂
everytime marques say but,one demon soul has been killed
Pro means "I want more money"
I get a week's worth of battery with my Garmin.
What the hell is he driving, that steering monstrosity would drive me crazy!
Can’t wait to FaceTime on Apple watch
I wish there phones had this battery life. personally I dont find the watch appealing, I see no use for it.
Can someone talk to Apple about building the pedometer in a watch face for people to see the number of steps they’ve taken without having to scroll through their entire activity feed.
Apple have tried so hard to make a smart watch for every type of person/athlete but no matter what they do there will never be able to make a watch for any combat sports athlete especially a striking sport as they require your wrists to be wrapped shame is all as there's no real way to get around it
It’s funny when people say WR 100 water resistant. WR literally stands for water resistance. So you’re saying water resistance 100 water resistance. Lol!
my guy wore a watch with a tux
a watch that drains after 2 days and he says it's pretty good
Will they ever just fix or solve the tattoo problem? Most athletes have tattoos. Also a lot of consumers who want they nicer things in life have tattoos
What is the longest-lasting (battery) Apple watch?
Apple watches would rule the world if battery life was longer and they didn't just work with iOS.
That's just the price to charge it everyday day for a month.
Send it to me after your review as a give away am your top fan
I’m a doctor and using this watch so give me a ❤️ like
.......Brother, you do not burn 2k calories play ultimate for 3hrs. That is inaccurate.
The only weakest point is the battery 36 h is not enough they can do better this watch can save life’s god forbid example lost in a forest stuck in building during earthquake emergency 911  whatever reasons it can do a lot lot things but battery my be the reason,,,,😢
I know this review is about the watch, but damn boy what have you done with your hands with all those scars, thats a story i’d like to know 😅
Left hand gang
Sooo I can swim in a wave pool for 3 hours with this watch
Get a Garmin and charge it once a month 😃
Doesn't really make sense.. Comparing a typical watch to essentially a phone on your wrist. Of course it has to charge.
Comparing the Apple Watch battery with a casio watch battery was just stupid and desperate.
It looks like you're wearing a toaster on your wrist.
Lets just say if Batman wore a smart watch, it would be this one.
Only the raise lip helps with durability, apple is grinding hard to make fake claims again
Typical paid reviewer ("it's an Apple watch through and through ")! ❤
my casio watch battery lasts for 10 years...
We don’t use it because of the price lmao $800 bro
That screen is huge. It’s like having a phone on your wrist.
This watch has made such an impact in me that I have actually decided to change to Apple from Samsung. Girlfriend "pro" hmmmmmm 😜
You’re not wearing your watch on your wrist. You’re wearing it on your arm…
I'm glad they didn't use pro. It's so over used
A.p.l.e police can we create this group plz!! 🍎
This watch cost more than my iphone 11 LOL😂😂😂😂😂😂😂😂
For 800USD there are many real watches for sale that won't be obsolete and useless after a couple of years.
Your wearing the watch wrong.  Weird
We just cannot use this watch for outdoor activities with this sort of battery life! Imagine being stuck in an emergency and the battery is gone in a day ! So no way one can use this for such activities
Can I watch YouTube on it ???
Each of these expensive devices😂
Is nobody going to comment on the fact that he goes from black to white repeatedly
Or work a whole lot.... You forgot us.
2000 calories is like 2 kcal
2 nights? still doesn't beat my garmin watch for less than 400, one week battery life, can use it to pay apple pay, and you can listen to music and connect to Bluetooth headphone "without" the phone sigh.
My Ticwatch has nearly all the features here, but $450 cheaper. It seems Apple could sell these for $1600 and some you man bun types would still buy it.
No, I think still I don’t need a smart watch. Only a simple watch will do the job.
Try 2 weeks , Huawei smart watch 😁
You compare the Apple Watch to a Casio and you say that 2 days and nights isn't good enough in today's world? Can I have some of what you're smoking?
Any watch is a bad buy, because in a few years it will be old outdated. Most people with stop wearing it by that time
2 full day 🤣🤣🤣
40m not 100
It’s just too big. Not all of us are large people with big hands/long limbs
Nope - all smart watches require removing for charging
Its a big watch for people with small wrist its normal to normal guys
It's apple's "Sapphire crystal" low quality sapphire lmfao been using it on iphones  camera lenses for years
Every watch is worth it if you use it wisely ......lol
😂 this watch is pretty silly
I will solve this question for you really quickly. Anything made by Apple is not worth the money they ask. There you go I just created all your future apple is it worth it videos for you.
i dont even use a watch,  i got the time on my phone!
Bruh, the battery thing is just stupid. My 100 dollar Oppo Watch Free lasts a full 4 nights till the 5th day with extensive training, sleep monitoring, etc. 
So, that's another Apple style: "Yesterday's tech at tomorrow's price"
how come no one is calling you out for what you do ?
like you're talking about most of the population but you don't care about that.
you will never spend time on anyone unless they're extremely rich.
it should sit on the right arm…
If your wrists are big enough and pockets are deep enough…..
Yeah, sorry. Most of these comments have me weary. Lots of people talking about their very active lifestyle at the top of the comments. Doesn't work that way in reality. This comment section is pretty much the top 1% of 'people who are active'.
It takes almost half a lakh in India to buy Apple Watch series 8, I bought one and within 6 months white spots started appearing on the body of the watch, It cannot survive humid weather and sweat and Apple is just avoiding to provide any service by saying that this is a cosmetic damage @marques whats your take on this
Yeah pay 800 dollars for 2 days of battery xD clearly a luxury and show off item. Needless to say, i bought it.
If I want to track my health data
Then I will buy a fitbit or garmin for half of the price of apple watch ultra
hahahahahaha.... he drives a Tesla..... hahahahahahahaah
Put a M1 chip in it
For most of the ppl, definitely overkill. Regular series are fine, but battery is a garbage.
So now, should you wear this "in your face" watch, made for extreme sports... you, who occasionally hits the gym?
It's too much of a watch imo.
1:45 Then you can have Afro hair cut.
the apple watch on steroids
My series 3 dies by 4pm
Man, the bigger face is absolutely beautiful
That looks more like a $ 10 dollar square gadget from the family dollar store 😆😁😀 smart watches are decades behind in technology  and charging the watch every night is a nuisance 🤓😎
Let me say this, if your in tha mountains on a hunt, bring your iphone 14 pro max and leave your watch off unless you need it for search and rescue! And if your in tha cold, put it in cloth and put in it in your pocket!
wake me up when it can last a month
the other people dont really want a smartwatch
This would’ve been nice in a smaller watch face for women and those with smaller wrists. 😒
$800 ? Hell nah !
Hell no
Why does one need to track their sleep?? Make it make sense to me.. SMH
Another awesome video Des! So glad that you had a chance to test this out and I can’t wait to get mine on Friday. It’s flattering to Garmin that Apple launched a device more focused on outdoor activities and I can’t wait to dive deeper into it versus something like the Enduro 2. Battery life is obviously a massive differentiator, but I honestly wonder if that matters to most people who are not ultra runners.
You make the best outdoor tech review videos homie appreciate it
Another brilliant review Des! You are my go to for sport tech reviews. I would be interested to hear your thoughts on recreational athletes use of Garmin vs Apple.  I am a Fenix 6 user in part for battery, ruggedness and functionality but as an Apple product user the the Apple 8 or ultra is calling.
I cancelled my Apple Watch Ultra order and bought a Garmin Enduro 2 instead from a lady who won it in a competition (I got a really good deal) and then after 4 months I missed my Apple Watch so I sold the Garmin for $90 more than what I bought it for (winning) and bought the Apple Watch Ultra and I'm so happy to be back on the Apple Watch. The Garmin is a good GPS watch but it's not a good Smart Watch. It's kind of a dumb watch really and some things like weather are just wildly innacurate at times. Anyway, loving the Apple Watch. The battery life is great. I just slap it on charge when I do my morning routine (shower, brush teeth etc) and thats easily enough to keep it going another 24 hours including GPS activities. I try to keep it in the range of 40-80% so that the battery will last a long time without degredation. In select scenarios I'll charge it to 100% and use low power mode to get the longest battery life.
Gorgeous intro!  Love seeing that Casio!!!!   Agree with your conclusions.  Great video as always Des!   Thanks for making this one 👍
Awesome review. I would be curious to see the limitations of the waypoints and trackback compared to the garmin ecosystem. Is there any way to import/export waypoints/tracks/courses? File types supported?
Love the review Des. Appreciate the great high quality content this last month!
Fantastic review! Thanks
As always, the absolute go-to, for sports trackers reviews! Thank you!
Great review as always. I am a slow runner, and I wonder if the battery can last at least for 7 hours with music listening (with the AOD and multiband)?
Fantastic review! Love the use of comparative data and showing the graphs. Amazing work!
Des, you have the best reviews of all! For us, the folks that need a regular smartwatch the options are pretty limited, at the moment it's basically either Apple's Ultra or Samsung's Watch 5 Pro. It would be great to see a full on comparison between those two watches, just like in this video!
I would love the ability to broadcast HR data to my cycling computer. It would be great if Apple also supported Ant+ and standard BLE transmission.
King Des! 
Been watching your review since series 3, and have ahad Apple Watches  since then based on your review.
I think this is for people who are tired of the old design and fancy a bigger battery not necessarily the real adventure crowd which probably make up the 1% who buy this watch.
I am happy with my S5 but am trying to decide whether to go for the S8??
5:16 ... always my friend! you are a great content creator!  thanks
Great job, Des!
this watch is so cool
I've been waiting for this video! Great review, Des.
This is such a crazy review! Damn! I have never seen any watch review this detailed, unbiased and totally worthy!
I just found your channel for the first time and subscribed. Such an in depth technical review of the ultra. Thank you
Stunning
Thank you so much for such in-depth analysis and testing from a fitness perspective! Incredibly detailed and comprehensive!
Your review has been the most fitting as far as info that I've been looking for on this watch. Thanks for the level of effort you put into this!
Great reviews on all 3 versions Des, if you had to go with one which would you pick?
Thank you for your detailed Videos, they help a lot and are super well done 🎉
Great informative video, Des. I have one on order and the more I see the more I like.
I'm excited to get my hands on mine and test it out. I'm someone who can only really afford one expensive smart watch and I like the fact that this will be useful as an everyday watch as well as a trail running and hiking watch. Don't really mind if I have to charge it every couple days, especially since it looks like actual use case for it has a longer battery life than apple is advertising--especially since I don't really use my watch to check phone notifications or anything like that. I'm wondering how well i does with something like all trails for trail navigation, and if that would make the compass feature redundant anyways.
Superb review content.  Headed to your unboxing and then over to Ray....
Thank you, Des. Fabulous review, as usual! 👍👏
I love Garmin and still use my Fenix for hiking/packing but traded in my Epix 2 for the Ultra. It is annoying to not be able to respond to notifications through my watch and really enjoy having the LTE and being able to leave my phone at home. The ultra is my new EDC.
Very informative review, thanks for taking the time to record this.
Thanks for your in depth data in your usage of this watch! I’m a long distance runner that has been using a normal Apple Watch for tracking and the Ultra definitely had my attention. It’s nice to see a fellow runner review use it for its actual purpose instead of seeing tech reviews pretend to go on a run or swim in a pool to review this watch!
Excellent video, Des… as usual! Thanks a lot, looking forward to get my ultra 😊
every time I consider on many smart watches for my exercise, you're always solve it out. Thank you Des!
great review, thanks. Even more stoked to get my Ultra next month…being in Boulder, your tests hit home!
This is the review i needed. Great review.
Thanks
Great review Des! This and Ray’s are the two I’ve been waiting for! Thank you! Can’t wait for mine to arrive Friday!
3rd party app subscriptions and battery life drove me from AWS6 to a FR955 for training readiness features, just 2 weeks before the Ultra launch
Great review, agree with your conclusion. Did you do a comparison of the display brightness in direct sunlight, during workout and regular use, before and after activating the screen, compared to the series 8 and the Garmin Epix 2 ? I am curious about the viewable differences there. 2000 nits is promising on paper but when it is only activated during specific situations it is less useful. In addition how much dimmed is the watch at night when I would check time during sleep.
Great review!  Data-centric.  Love it
Really good and balanced review!  Thanks and keep up the great work
very helpful review, especially the GPS and heart rate sensor tests! Thanks
Thats impressive in depth review! Thank you!
Amazing review , I’m subscribing! Definitely not a Garmin killer but if Apple decide to step in hard on hiking watch/market the Garmin maybe be in danger but is soon to be predicted , in sick it round/classic look of watcher and will try ultra , I was hoping battery life to be more like 4-5 days but … we all have dreams :D overall good basis for second generation of ultra. I’m pretty sure second generation will be way more valuable and this is my question to wait for next gen or to take this….
The only review I've been waiting for🎉
Love your reviews!
Love your videos. Thanks for this, can’t wait for the Ultra.  IMO this is the ultimate do all sports watch.
Another awesome in-depth review. Legend. Thanks!
Awesome review, sir.  Enjoyed the thoroughness of your testing and presentation of data.  I recently switched from years with an Apple Watch to a Garmin 955 and couldn’t be more pleased with the decision.  The battery life, difficulty to operate while sweaty, and having to use apps were major factors. I personally needed a tool for workouts not a smartwatch.
Great review… I’ve pretty much made up my mind to stay with my series 6 for now.  I don’t see enough bang for the buck to change.  Although I do scuba dive. I would have to change my set up to measure my oxygen levels just to use my watch. I do 3 day 100 mile competitions and I don’t feel the Ultra will be able to complete the hikes.  I will still have to bring a battery backup charger like I do today.  The way points/find your way back is nice but that’s a feature of watchOS9.  Although maybe easier to operate with the ULTRA.  The S8 chip specs are the same as the series 6, so there’s no benefit there either.  The Ultra is packaged nicely and has made improvements.  It seems more flash than dash and I’m not gaining as much as I’d like to pay $800 or 900 after Apple care.

Just my thoughts.
Nice in depth review 
Can’t wait to go ULTRA!
This review is so detailed.  Great job!  Are you able to use this watch in conjunction with a bike computer as a heart rate monitor?
Great review. First of your reviews I’ve seen and I’ll be subscribing!
I totally rely on this channel for any sport related tech reviews …Thos guy is awesome
hey bro, thanks for the great review. i am more amazed your fitness. looking at your run times, how did you become so fit ? how can one get better at the long distance runs like the ones you do and the time spent on it? for example, something that takes you 30 in time, takes me 1 hour of time
Excellent review!! 👍 If you were to run a half maraton race tomorrow - what would you choose - Apple Watch Ultra or the Garmin Epix 2?
Thank you for an amazing video. 😊
finally ... I have been waiting for this review ... thx for it ... I have a Garmin descent g1 for diving and sports (only sports otherwise I wear a regular mechanical watch), and Garmin is a bit sluggish ... not very responsive all the time ... Ultra seems very fluid ... I have to think if should give up better battery life for seamless integration.
Great review! Thank you!
Long time Garmin user, currently on Fenix 6 pro. Won't be changing (yet), but I hope this really wakes Garmin up to deliver better products and apps with their line up. Garmin interface is beginning to look dated and also limits third party developers to produce good apps on their platform.
This has all the details I'm looking for - awesome review!
I would like to see more for cycling like ant+ connections
Great review mate! Thanks, will get the watch on Friday with the Alpine Loop, switching from S6 Stainless Steel 44mm
Sold my Enduro 2 to get this 😬
thanks so much for the amazing review!!! would you still consider the apple watch series 7 to be a good accurate watch for running and biking? i got the watch a few months ago and love it! i would get the ultra but the case size is simply too big for my wrist! honestly just want some reassurance that i made a good purchase! 😂 thanks again!
Great review as always.
Really solid review, nice job!
Great review.  My only concern is it’s inability to connect to 3rd party devices such as power meters. For a triathlete, I feel like this is the only feature preventing me from switching
What a great detailed review. Many thanks 🙏
Hey, you are just down the highway from me, I live in Broomfield.  I currently have a AW4. Had it forever.  I use it for tracking multiple items like indoor workouts, outdoor hikes, bike rides and alpine skiing.  In the winter time I use it to track my skiing, mainly at Loveland Ski area for alpine skiing using Ski Tracks.  I import the all the various workout data into Training Peaks just to track where I am at, I'm not as serious of an athlete as you appear to be, I just like to monitor my progression in preparation for my annual heliskiing in Canada.  This is 6.5 days of intense skiing and you really need to be in good shape to enjoy it.  The biggest challenge for the battery and GPS is in my heliskiing.  The main problem there  is the battery just won't last for a full day.  Wrist based HR is best so nothing interferes with a avalanche beacon on your chest.  Not a deal killer but an irritation, I just go until it won't record anymore with the AW4.  The extended battery life for the AWU would fix this issue.  The other irritation is the delay at the start of a workout where it won't register heartbeat, you reference that in your AW8 review that I watched this AM.  Does the AWU have that delay problem also or is it better than the AW8?  Keep up the good reviews.
Great review can’t wait to get mine in
Awesome review... That is THE vídeo we waiting for...
One of the best reviews on the Apple Watch Ultra. Thank you!
Mine's going back today...IMO this watch is mostly form over function, like the production team mastered the design but ran out of time to actually improve the core functionality as a fitness watch. On the hardware side it's a nice case, size, feel etc. On the software side (aside from the novelty items like diving etc) this is really not much different than my 7. Back to my Fenix and 830. Nothing to panic about just yet, Garmin.
First AW that catches my eye. But i have no use for any of those extra features lol.
Great content, as always 👍
for the first time i kinda like apple watch, it looks good and tough
Wow great video! You covered a lot, including my sports, road cycling & mountains and agree with your conclusion 100! Would like that Apple integration but it’s lacking the important Garmin features. Thanks!
This is your time to shine Des! Amazing video.
Thank you for the excellent watch review..concise and unbiased..keep them coming
Great review.  Thank you.  I did a bike ride today with both the watch and my Garmin.  For some reason the watch did not pick up any relative GPS info including speed and distance.  Did I miss a step when setting it up???
Hi Des, thank you so much for your incredible analysis and in-depth reviews. I find I watch your videos much more than other reviewers on YouTube because you are very honest and do such a thorough job with everything you test out. A+ review and video my friend. Keep up the great work and God bless.
Appreciate the video. I’m glad my interest in the Watch Ultra led YouTube to recommend this. Subscribed.
I’m getting the Apple Watch Ultra for my birthday in January 🥳
Great review and much appreciated! I was an AW until picking up the Epix 2 on release a few months back and I’ve grown to really love the customization features of the Epix buttons (muscle memory for turning on the flashlight in the middle of the night, holding down a button a few seconds to activate sleep mode etc etc), HR + Step + calorie complications, body battery, and weekly charging. That said, the smart watch features on the Garmin are pretty lackluster, as expected, given Apple’s control of the ecosystem (non AW smart watches are essentially just mirroring notifications from the phone). Do I really miss those smartwatch features? Eh, maybe. Certainly nice to have, but not as critical as I thought they might have been. I could say the same about Garmin’s awesome pre-loaded maps on the Epix - they’re awesome, but I haven’t really had any use for them in my MTB adventures where I would much rather look at a larger display on a bar mounted garmin computer. I’m intrigued by the AW Ultra because of the longer battery life and look forward to trying mine out come Friday. One random question: how awful are the alpine bands? Had to get one to get the watch on launch day but they look like a PITA to put on and take off…
Hi Des! Very nice review of the Apple Watch ultra! Do you think that the ultra will get support for powermeter with a software update or is it a hardware thing? I have a Fenix 6 pro currently that have everything I need and a Apple Watch 7. Maybe better for me to wait? Regards Rob from Sweden
I would be raving if there was a single good sailing assistant made for the Apple Watch that would include marine charts with visualised heading, up-to-date information about tides and wind, and a simple anchor drag alarm. Otherwise, there's the Quatix 7 that I think I should go for instead. Regardless, that was an amazing review!
I’ve switched from Apple Watch 6 to Garmin Fenix 7 Sapphire Solar only because of the battery life. Now I get 14-day battery life (they advertise 18-22 days, but I didn't manage to get it despite turning off all notifications, using simple GPS or not using it at all for some activities) and it's great. However F7's display cannot be compared to the one in AW. Moreover software wise Garmin is inferior to Apple Watch (at least for me, because UX is worse).

After using GF7 for a couple of days I decided that as soon as Apple manages to propose AW with 4-5 days battery life, I’m coming back. Frankly speaking a month ago I thought that there is no way they would do it in near future. But now AWU looks promising. If I can get 4-5 days with low power mode, I'm ready to trade 14-day battery life for that display and software :)
that box is ultra just like the watch
Great 👍🏻 information very impressive video bro ♥️
I like you're tests ;-)
Great video Des. I have the Ultra arriving in a couple of days along with the orange Alpine Loop, Green Alpine Loop and the black/grey Trail Loop which is coming on the watch. I got the Series 8 after initially not liking the Ultra on thin wrists (I have thin wrists). But recently the Ultra has really grown on me and I regret somewhat not getting it over the Series 8. So I've decided to order the Ultra, try it out for 7 days on my day to use, and see if I like it better than the Series 8. If I do, I will sell the Series 8 (I should still get a lot of money back for it as it's the stainless steel model and it's still the newest model). I'm so looking forward to trying out the Ultra, and hopefully moving me over from hereon to the Ultra over the standard Apple Watch.
Very good and very detailed vid. Thanks 🙏 you helped me to order the ultra (especially because of the battery 🔋) 
❤from 🇮🇱
The one I've been waiting for.. the diving part I've watched the MKBHD podcast.
Boulder resident here. Thank you for your review and in depth data comparison from the ultra. I have mine preordered from apple with a delivery date of October 26th, but hoping to pick one up from the store on Friday.
I liked your tip about wearing the watch higher on your wrist during a run, thank you!
wow this is really a good review.
Great video!!! U are the best!!!
I ordered mine on launch so it won't be arriving until end of October.  I may pop over to the store on Friday morning to see if they have any in stock.  I can't imagine there would be many people lined up for this specific product, but who knows.
Great video.I'm looking forward a new Apple Watch
Awesome review. I think the watch is going to be amazing and can not wait for mine to be delivered! However, I also think there are groups of people that this watch applies to that apple kind of forgot about. Construction workers, police officers, firefighters, wild-land firefighters, EMT’s and Paramedics, tow truck drivers, and many more. All of these individuals would benefit from a more rugged and tough Apple Watch with longer battery life, compass and waypoint functionality, an emergency siren, etc. I think there is a large group of everyday people who this watch can cater to, not just uber athletes / adventurers. Obviously the price may be a deterrent for some but I think there are many people other than athletes that this watch will appeal to.
Please make a comparison video of Samsung galaxy watch 5pro vs Apple watch ultra ....👍
DC AND DESFIT... my only go to for watch reviews..
What is the best watch I can get for outdoors and heart rate monitoring? Battery life is definitely a concern for me. Price not so much.  Currently I wear a G-Shock Mudmaster that I truly love
Nice review, although does it still have a Lock Screen when wet like the other apple watches?  This is a major impact on usefulness for aquatic sports like swimming and sailing.  Unclear how it can be a useful dive watch as advertised  if the screen locks when wet.
For the straps that arent rubber how do you manatge it after a sweaty workout?
great review.
I can’t wait to get mine, Friday can’t come soon enough.
Wouldn’t it be better to use the action button to start and pause instead of a two button option to pause?
Amazing review! You have a new subscriber.
Thinking about getting a Apple Watch Ultra for fitness related stuff. What is running power?
i was having a Oneplus 8 Pro with Huawei Watch Gt 2 now i switched to a I Phone 14 Pro Max and now i will also switch to a Apple Watch an i have ordered the Ultra because i dont like the Aluminium version and the Ultra is not much more expensive to the stainless-steel version. and it has a bit better battery Time.
I'v been waiting for this review. I'm so excited to get my Ultra in hand - perhaps "on wrist" would be phrasing. 😀 Anyway, thanks for the excellent review!
Saw another reviewer that the display is the same size as the lager series 8. It’s the casing making it 49mm
Thanks!
Thank you. I watched all of this even though I have no intention of moving to an iPhone. It's useful to see what can be done when money is no object
4:55 TIP for older watches : if you dont want to wait for the 3 seconds count down, just press on the screen once and it will start immediately.
Great content Des. Hi from Brazil! :)
I would LOVE to use an Apple Watch and specially this ultra for its awesome integration w the phone and apple ecosystem to which I subscribe to for home and work use. but the battery life, non integrated navigation and lack of compatibility with 3rd party sensors ( power, cadence etc) is a 3 way deal breaker for me. my Epix 2 tells me to plug back in when it still has 12 hrs of life, to put the vast difference in battery life between the watches into perspective. then not having the ability to run my power meter and cadence sensor on the watch is just midbogglibg for a watch thats supposed to appeal to THIS market. then there the non integrated navigation. having to use up iPhone battery to aid the watch with navigation is just too many systems being drained at the same time when youre out in places where you want to conserve battery on as many devices as possible
Hiya Desfit! Great review as usual,  but no maps, no golf courses no bike trails, no fishing holes, NO SALE. Basically still an apple watch with armor...was hoping for more...  Garmin 955 does everything I need for half price with student discount.
iPhone 🍬 🍭 nice  -hardcore will wear it as second watch ✨
Still two days battery only. Garmin Epix 2 winner!
Appreciate the active and in depth review on this watch. Most reviewers do not but talk from a brochure perspective.
Great video, Des! These things look sweet, but my heart belongs to Garmin...
I just wish they'd make the data visible in a run as customizable as it is on a Fenix - being able to set up your data screens on a Garmin to show what you need is just so useful. And make it look less like a 1980's brick.
When wearing workout gloves during lifting do they depress the crown causing the screen to change?
The only honest review of the Apple Watch. The others all seemed afraid to mention Garmin, I was starting to think that Apple had specifically asked them not to!
Best use for the waypoint feature? Walmart parking lot!
Excited for mine to deliver. This will be my first Apple Watch, I’ve been wearing G-Shock most of my life and Garmin for the last couple years.
Thanks for this video!  At the Apple Event, most liked the Velcro Trail strap best.  What are your thoughts now that you’ve used the Alpine?
Des, thank you for yet another great review! Twenty minutes going by without me even noticing it. You're awesome, man! Now, about the watch, looks promising, but I find it difficult to steal Garmin's place in a short period of time... Anyway, that's my thinking. All the best man
Hello, Have you looked into if the new ultra would work with anyone with a sleeve tattoo? I had issues with my previous ones.  Thank you
Love the review - in-depth, concise and honest! Great work Des! A question - since I don’t have an iPhone, I can’t get this watch! I currently have a Venu 2, should I switch to Galaxy Watch 5 Pro? I generally do weight training and running outdoors!
Your ride in Longmont went also right by my house.
I don't have anything to add that others haven't said about your great video, but I figured I'd post anyways to help the YouTube algorithm work in your favor. 
I ordered this watch on launch.  I will be wearing a garmin on one arm and this on the other for my runs because I'm a frigging nerd.
Did you lock the screen during activity / mountain biking?  any issues with your gloves, pushing the buttons ?
i was wondering. the depth sensor above the crown should also messure water temp. But will it also messure ambient temp?
Seems to.me watching ur reviews that the series 8 is more accurate then the ultra
How about for people who are not into sports at all?
How is this watch for sitting on the couch eating chips? Does the bigger size get in the way of reaching into the bag?!
 Jokes aside, well done review Dez, I think in general it’s a great watch to start your fitness journey but in the end I feel it’ll help the sales of a garmin or Coros because once you get past a certain point, apple can’t satisfy the needs yet unless they can do more with software.
 From what I see on other reviews the speakers and microphones are miles ahead of the older versions for making and taking calls.  This will make paying for the cellular useful for a change. In the past it was hard to hear people and it would cut out a lot.
I have the Apple ultra and I find it very frustrating when I’m driving I go to look at my watch and instead of seeing a watch face, I see a compass coming on all by itself it happens a lot and then I talk to Apple and they can’t seem to figure out why it does this. I’m wondering if you’ve had other complaints about such things by the way the action button when I set mine was able to be set for swimming with no problem, which is my normal exercise nice video I liked it I’d like you to go through a video that tells, but all the different items are for the face. I have one of the faces that has like a chronograph and I still don’t know what everything on their means.
It is possible to upload structured workout form training peaks?
Love it so far.  More rugged, more sporty, better display, faster, and just a nice shake up to the same, bland roll-outs for the last several years!
What happens if you turn on the siren when the watch is underwater?
I bought the Ultra for the crazy battery life and as a really good upgrade to my Series 4 !
Thanks for the great review!  I'll say that the Ultra intrigues me.  Currently rocking a Garmin Fenix 6 Pro that I wear 24/7 for training and for pleasure (different bands make it easy to dress up or dress down).  It's starting to show its age, only lasting 10 days or so instead of the 14 out of the box.  I've been thinking about replacing it with something, was leaning toward either the Fenix 7 or the 955 but now I'm thinking about the Ultra.  I don't need things like cycling power on outdoor rides, though I like that on Zwift but I don't need to run that through my watch to get that data.

This might be the watch for me.  But I'm kind of thinking that I'll wait a year or two, either for software bugs to be worked out or software features to be added, or even better: wait for the Apple Watch Ultra 2 (or whatever they decide to call it).
I agree, excellent review but I am still unsure on your explanation of the battery life.
Regarding the Alpine loop watch band, make sure you choose a size suitable where you can hook more so beside your wrist rather than the underside. Otherwise you will scratch the sh!t out of practically anything you rub against the underside of your wrist. My MacBook has a bunch of scratches next to the touchpad. Lesson learned.
Which is the best strap as i will be removing my watch a lot i need a strap which lasts longer.pls help
Apple must improve retrace automatically feature if they need to win Garmin
I have my action button set to flashlight because I utilize the flash light constantly, but I have to say I’ve never unintentionally pressed the action button and had the flashlight turn on. I see many saying it’s something that happens to them, so clearly there’s something to it, but oddly enough it’s never happened to me. Not sure why.
Have you tried multisport with leg repetition such as swimrun or run and bike ?
Which alpine loop size are you wearing? S or M?
Are they using the temp sensor for anything but cycle tracking? Also can 3rd parties use that sensor for something else?
No Navigation support, inability to connect my power meter, hard pass for now! Hopefully they add it down the line, and perhaps I’ll go back to an Apple Watch, as I do miss the integration with my Iphone.
can you use google offline maps?
Not a physical fitness nut, but I am a 60 year old man, who does exercise, but wants the assurance, that if something happens, I have a quick and convenient way to get help quickly.
I've tried other "Smart" watches, but just ended up giving them away, because they just didn't give me what I was looking for.
With the Ultra, I have the advantage, of tracking many metrics, that pertain to my health, as well as fall and crash detection, which is awesome for someone like me, especially since it also has cellular, so even if I forget my iPhone at home, this watch can call for help, everywhere I go!
There's just so many reasons, other than extreme workouts and outdoor adventuring, that makes this the go to watch, for older people.
Also, in comparison to something, like Life Alert, this is a much less expensive, and more accurate alternative that also keeps track of your health!
🎉Exelent
Fantastic Review - thank you for that :) Which Software did you use when you show these graphs?
Does it have an always on second hand? Other Apple Watches do not have that feature.
When covering the GPS tracks I was waiting for an instance of “bank robber mode” to be activated 😂
Nice review.  It's not clear where Apple is headed with this class of device.  Even the Apple Series 8 will provide a similar fitness experience in general for a lot of people.  At the same time, Apple is unwilling to make sacrifices in terms of OS/Display/Sensors for a more focused fitness experience.  I get it.  But the end result is a massive battery and various extended battery low power modes that still fall short of a week of workouts.  At the same time, having used a variety of watches from Garmin, Suunto, Polar, and Wahoo, it's not as if there isn't room for improvement there either.  My hope is that this competition will be good in general for the ecosystem and help better products over time.
Idea for next video: How to leverage both both Garmin and AW Ultra in your daily routines along with best practice Strava syncing. I think there are many of us that have both watches. I’m planning to start using a new AW Ultra as a Smartwatch during the day and swap out for my Epix2 during workouts (or maybe add it and leave the phone at home). Then sleep at night with the Oura Ring 3. Be the first to do a video for us tech geeks trying to incorporate multiple devices. It’ll be a hit! 😎
I have a 183cm left wrist circumference ie should i go for the M or L?
I am using a series 3 (38mm) right now, getting about a day battery.  (Used to be worse before they released some updates)

Will get the Ultra for my birthday :D

My wrist seems to be around 19cm, I hope the watch doesn't look too big. 

I am gonna go for the Green Alpine Loop. (large)

What is your wrist size?
I work in an industrial environment and I think it is probably one of the only smart watches that would cope with my day to day use.
Great review! How does the Ultra compare to the 8 for heart rate monitoring? I know the tech is the same but does the different size make a difference? Thanks
Pretty awesome review and analysis!  Do you find the waypoint feature more useful than a full on map that garmin provides for those runs/hikes where you’re not familiar with the trail? Seems like offline maps is necessary or not?
Great review Des
I am looking into getting my first Apple Watch .
This may seem a stupid question 
I currently train with my iPhone n Bluetooth earbuds 
Can you play music from the Apple ultra watch while using the workout feature at the same time?
Hate bringing my iPhone to gym tbh
I received a coupon or “discount code” for the Fitbit Sense 2 for 50% off and it’s shipping on the 23rd but I’m interested in this Ultra. Not sure what to do lol. Part of me is just thinking of waiting until the Series 9 with this Fitbit discount but read the OS on Fitbit is bad so guess time will tell.
I think I'm going to be getting an Ultra. I'm a fan of the design and I like many of the smartwatch features standard in all Apple watches. The Ultra truly does feel like a fine balance between a smart watch and a sports watch, and I think it will appeal to many people who are looking for a "good enough" sports watch with great smartwatch features. Battery life aside, many of the shortcomings of the Ultra feel like they can be address with Watch OS/software updates (external sensor support, maps integration, etc). This is an encouraging sign, and I would like to see them not release a new Ultra model every year and instead focus on these software improvements.

I agree with your conclusion in that this watch specifically is not a "Garmin-killer." However, it should be interpreted as a warning sign. Apple's strongest point has been their software. If they continue to improve features by building up their software, Garmin (a company notorious for neglecting software) could be left in the dust.
Do you think the Watch durability will do good in a construction work environment?
Any chance you have any data points on battery life while running/hiking and streaming music via Bluetooth with no iPhone?  I haven’t seen anyone post any data points on this. My dream is 4 hour run with music playback via bt (marathon).
When will apple show elevation descended as well?!
Garmin 7 or this ....?
My experience with apple watch ultra and mtb has been disastrous: having my mtb computer with a flat battery, I decided to let apple watch ultra do the job, well, in a 45km ride it only scored 10 km, why? because at the first jolt the side keys paused the clock and screwed up the track, I noticed it halfway around and said, never mind, I restarted it, nothing here too at the first jolt it started again break. the same thing happened to me with garmin phoenix, these side keys are not good with off-road, the bike computer is better in any case. nice toy but in sport it has some flaws
Amazing review! BUT I would have LOVED to see something like 2:00 from above as well!!! Because my wrist is so small aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!
Hall Ranch ❤
Hopefully I’ll be switching from AWS5 to Garmin Fénix 7/7S. Thanks for the analysis AWU isn’t there yet. Short battery, no solar, no topo maps, no real physiological metrics, no circular. Any thoughts on what I would lose going with Garmin Fénix 7s vs regular 7? Thanks
Hi thanks for such an in depth review on the ultra. I'm still using the series 3 because of affordability and I just wanted to know how can one access such in-depth data tools. for example at 15:14.
I'm getting this ,this week. I have a android I want to go back to apple, I'll also get a apple I phone purple pro max.
Kinda of a bit dissapointed at the heart rate monitoring with the AWU. I watched your Series 8 review and the heart was incredible. Did not see the same enthusiasm from you with the AWU, but thank you for the honesty in that aspect. I think i was expecting a little more from a higher end model or at least the same. I understand having to tighten up the band depending on what im doing, but i would like to just wear it without having to worry about that.
Very fair review. I haven’t received mine yet. Sigh!
Had to watch your review first before Marques brownlee's video
Great stuff Des! I would love better mountain bike support from Apple: better GPS trail accuracy and better heart rate accuracy for rough terrain (at least tips on how to increase accuracy like tighten strap much more like what you say). Also electric ⚡️ bike support for calorie counting. I know all good things come with time, but I have a large mtb community here that are wishing for better support from Apple!
Nice review. My suggestion is that you benchmark HR data against a reliable chest strap as arm and forearm sensors are just not as accurate. Electrical vs. optical is always going to be more accurate. That said, the tolerances you show are well within most people’s reasonable needs. Also the hook style wrist strap is probably the worst of the straps for fitting. The jumps between loops is too big for many wrists. One being a little too loose for some, and then too tight of the same wrist. That might’ve contributed to some of the variations detected.
My god I would have loved the GPS indicator to be a part of the watchOS 9 for the rest of us!
The style of the ULTRA kind of reminds me of the game FALLOUT, sort of retro cold war shick!
Nice toy - pay to have a power supply near by 👍
I’ve been wondering what could be turned off in the Ultra to make it last as long as an Epix2?
Where did you get that Camo scale? 🙌🏼🙌🏼🙌🏼
6:36 can you please specify the band size for Alpine Loop you presented? Trying to figure out which size would be best for me. Thanks in advance.
Is it just me or does the Apple Watch reflect higher active calories burned, during activities. As compared to my fenix 7
Is it possible to mapping the action button for manual lap button during running like garmin?
This watch is great undoubtedly and one worth considering definitely 

However 

I feel like Apple can make it better. 
1-There are watches out there who have detected built in maps navigation without cellular connection 

2- there are watches who not only has that feature but they use the power of solar to charge the battery. Apple can not only make use of that technology but enhance it too. 

3- implementing LASEr technology to measure the temperature of surface. Knowing the direction for  ……………….. 

4- why didn’t Apple drop the SOS with satellite feature on Apple Watch ultra just like they did it with their new release iPhone which is another reason to wait and buy the next year Apple Watch ultra
Lol, precision start, brilliant someone tell every other fitness watch company, or wait everyone has always done this...
Nice in depth review 
Can’t wait to go ULTRA!
What a great in depth review, thanks!
Thanks!
For me I still prefer not having to juggle too many 3rd party apps, plus the ultra is definitely too big for my small wrist. I wear the Fenix 7s and it fits perfectly on my wrist. Even the bigger version of the regular apple watch is too big for me.
I do tree work for my profession. On a daily basis I use a chainsaw and do many things with my hands that would cause this watch to get bumped or scrape against something. Do you think it’s durable enough to last through something like that everyday? I thought about getting a case for it but it doesn’t need to get any bigger!
What’s your wrist size?
Is it software or hardware reglemented that we cannot connect ant+ sensors? Is this something that Apple can deliver via software update in the future?
I've bought one today. I wish it was 47 mm. I hope next year Apple makes 2 sizes of the next Ultra.
please use time stamps
Here's why I don't think I'll switch to an Apple Ultra: 
1. Ecosystem: i own an Android phone which I love and switching means buying an iPhone... A hefty investment
2. Battery life. My Garmin Fenix 6 lasts for almost 2 weeks and that means reliability
3. Maps. There are no maps on the apple watch
4. It wants to replace my phone. It does too much redundant functions to my phone and depletes battery life for no reason 
The only thing I love about it is its aesthetics, the design language is awesome but not a good reason to switch from my reliable Garmin. Thanks for the great review as usual. Peace & love to all
how did you get apple gps data transferred to a map? wish i could do that! Do you need another app? (and of course great review!)
What size is your wrist?  I’m trying to see how  this watch will fit my 8” wrist.
It doesnt look terribly huge.... But maybe a little bit chunky
The question...DOES IT WORKS WITH TRAINING PEAKS APP? Thank you @desfit
Whats your wrist measurement? Does look good👍
Apple Watch Ultra 
Tecnologia G Shock
Fantastic review as usual! One question: How does the Apple Watch ultra compare to Garmin/Coros in terms of training metrics ( training load, automatic suggested workouts, recovery time etc.) To me those are the most value adding features of a running watch
Great review. I still haven’t decided if I’m going to keep my preorder. It’s not due to arrive until 27th of October so I have some time to decide. I was pretty disappointed with the battery life when they announced it and I’m wondering if next year they will use 3 or 4 nm chips allowing for better efficiency and longer battery life. I had a Garmin Enduro for about 6 months and while the battery life was phenomenal, the smartwatch features are very poor so I ended up switching back to Apple Watch Series 7. Maybe I will just keep this for another year and wait for the Ultra 2. Or I could buy the ultra just because I want it and then get the ultra 3 or 4 in a couple of years. Help me decide!!
⌚🔥
do the watch sensors work over the sleeve of a winter jacket or diving suit?
How has the various Apple Watches you’ve owned/tested been for with VO2max over the years?  Has it compared well with other sport watches?
I'd definitely ditch the garmin forerunner over this watch if it wasn't tied to an iphone. Sure, garmin may be superior in battery life and more intense workouts, but for the joe-6-pack runners like me, it's enough, and the actual smartwatch features are an absolute killer. I hate carrying phones around, so being able to make/receive calls from the watch, independently, is a win for AWU. Not to mention that the garmins mostly look like ass.
Apple should of slightly curved the Watch, it sticks out way too much, I tried it out at the store.
Which band would you recommend? I’m a rock climber/hiker so I thought alpine, but the trail loop looks so comfy. Does it feel secure? Don’t want someone to snatch it off my wrist lol
If Apple put a transflective screen for longer battery life and actually invested in meaningful training load/recovery software, that would have destroyed the argument for getting a Garmin for iPhone users.
Hi Des great review, can you also give a price comparison between Garmin and Ultra? Would be great to know the cost/benefit with both
Longmont Potion Castle
Can the Ultra pair with a Garmin HRM-Pro Plus heart rate monitor?
You are a very friendly guy ;-) Thank you for this excellent review that still makes me want an Ultra. Coming from an Apple Watch 5, it is the new form factor that is very appealing to me — and this excellent, better readable display.

Could you please, nevertheless, consider presenting _less_ quickly? Don't worry, people would watch your excellent content anyway… Thanks ;-)
Not being an iPhone user….can this watch be activated and used if you have no other iOS devices?
Canadians CANNOT LOAD required APPS for Apple ULTRA WATCH from Apple iStore Canada
Does anyone know what gloves he is using @6sec?
So I use Android does this watch work with my phone?  If not, how can it be a Garmin killer if it doesn’t work with the majority of smart phones?
To be fair, most of the time, sitting on my couch IS my workout.
Great review! I feel like Garmins to the Watch Ultra is a bit apples to oranges, but I think a Samsung Watch Pro vs Watch Ultra would be an awesome comparison for fitness and general use! Things like battery life, navigation etc.
Great review as always! I have a 945 which I purely use for running up to marathon distance. As battery life isn’t a concern for me, would you see the Ultra as being able to replace a 945 or Fenix 7 for a runner?
What's your wrist size?
When i comes to Smart Watch review i only come to Desfit and The Quantified Scientist.
What is your wrist size?
Kinda looks like your watch stays a little too far back on your wrist?
Apple Support have to date REFUSED to pass on that the ULTRA WATCH CANNOT load required Apps from Apple’s Canada based iStore!!
As you say… until the Apple watch is not going to be able to add a powermeter connection… for a triathletes is useless. Let’s see next year what are the news on the apple watch ultra 2. :)
So, in conclusion, it’s not a watch to take into the unknown of extreme exploration?
20 extra grams on my wrist is too much. AW Aluminium body 41 mm is still a king.
I can’t possibly rationalize the price tag on such a battery life. Can we really call it a “sports watch” and not only a “smart watch”? I personally don’t think so… funny how it’s advertised being used on a snow maintain trail…I guess you gotta make sure you bring your charger AND a power block AND a solar powered battery pack, just to recharge your Ultra on a multi-day hike… 🤷‍♂️
One angle I don't see discussed a lot is that the Apple Watch Ultra is good enough to "freeze" sales. By that I mean if you have a Fenix 5/6 and were getting ready to upgrade, you can stretch those watches until the Ultra 2 comes around with all the missing features. I hope Garmin has a Fenix 7 Plus in the wings that will add that speaker and ability to work with digital assistants, take calls and so forth. That would be a great response to this Apple offering.
Can’t connect it to chest straps or any ant device, so much money for a watch doing less. Sports enthusiasts don’t need that much app but more sports features as that is why they are using these equipment. Garmin is not the best as they are always slow on delivering better features although they have it. So ultra may increase the pressure on Garmin which is good and who knows if ultra2 comes with features we sports people will like more ? Then why not?
👍👍👍👍👍👍👍👍
I think I’m going to retire my Garmin.
This watch is not the real deal. Maybe for massive apple fans who want an improvement from the previous watches but the big issue with this watch is it has the same chip as the one from watch series 6 from 2 years ago. Meaning it's using the same chip for a third year in a row. That doesn't make the ultra watch any special from the regular series 8. It's not almost 2 times better than the regular series 8 so why pay almost 2 times more?
Too bad its larger than the island of Mallorca, not to mention my arm.
Flip the watch to the underside of your wrist. Better and more direct contract with blood vessels.
While I understand why sites like these compare the Ultra to Garmin, etc. I think you are all missing the point. The point is not to pull Garmin users to Apple. The goal is to keep Apple users from buying Garmins in the first place. For most of the people I know who own Garmins they are overkill for amateurs, hobbyist and weekend warriors. Apple is extending their ecosystem to make those considering a sports watch to reconsider. If you own and use an Apple Watch are you willing to retire your work week gadget for a $1k Garmin to use for your hobby?  Maybe not now.
T minus 5yrs .... Garmin Fenix 7X Pro is like Friendster before Facebook came along.

Little by little, it's. gonna eat away at Garmin.

Garmin has zero social media presense, and they can call upload to Strava ...

Just the matter of checking off the boxes, and refinement. It's gonna happen.
First❤
I hated it at first, strongly disliked, now I really want one in hopes of it looking great on my wrist to be my main watch
Can you wear this one upside down too? 😋
People charge their phones every day, I don't get the obsession with a watch that can go weeks without a charge...
I think that the watch is a failure as long as we can’t get at-least 1 week battery life.
Great first review of the AWU, but I think you shouldn’t try beating @dcrainmaker by speaking fast.
Good review as always. The watch may be good if you are an Apple watch user as you said. However it totally fails what it is advertised for - a dive computer or an expedition watch
Had an Apple Watch before but then switched to Garmin and never looked back. A Garmin watch has all this features + a ton more that seems Apple is still a few years away, starting with the battery. 

This watch just looks cool but for a serious athlete, falls way behind in features.

Great review and honest opinion 👏🏽
i think its super big and ugly. wish it was smaller…. and cheaper. but finaly we get to see some reviews. everyone is posting now
What a shame that Apple discontinued the iPhone Mini and introduced this monstrosity. Oh well, I guess big IN YO FACE tech is what most people want.
Geez, slow down already.
Total waste of money….
Slow down with your speech. Christ.
At close to $1000, do you think you can utilize the Apple Watch Ultra to it's full potential! Let me know what activities I should do on my full review and what you wanna see tested!
Im still gonna buy it even though im not gonna do any extreme activities
I had the series 6. Bought the Ultra and zero regrets
I love mine like crazy and I have two of the bands! Alpine and Trail!
Love your unboxing videos 👏🏻👏🏻 the orange strap looks stunning 🤩 🍊
Love how excited you are talking about it😂
That smile when you got the watch on! ❤ it
I have been waiting for this video, finally!!!😆
DOPE 🔥🔥🔥
I love the orange band!!! The Apple Watch looks amazing
Beautiful watch thanks for the content
enjoyed your review. what is your wrist size and the Alpine Loop size you reviewed. thanks
Beautiful 😍...thanks 😍
Unbelievable watch
Seeing that orange strap, I know 😄 how much you would be soooo super happy seeing orange color band with your Apple watch ultra
Does it have an always on second hand? Other Apple Watches do not have that feature.
Just got mine today!
I cycle, swim, hike, workout but not at a ultra level. Good enough reason for me to buy lol plus I like the rugged aesthetics.
Hiii I just wanted to know if you can put a  case on the Apple Watch. Love the vid ❤❤❤❤
As always wow
I thought of you when they announced the orange button haha 
happy you got your hands o it
The Apple Watch Karl Conrad Edition!!! look fire on you bro!!! The orange looks on point.
The watch looks dope and cool
Please what’s the stainless steel watch that Karl’s wearing just before the unboxing? 😅
Just got mine for less $50 this week at Best Buy  im excited to use it even though i am not doing extreme work out 💪 or what ever i just want the looks this is a statement piece 👍
What is the traditional watch you're using?
I just ordered mine. I’m going from Apple Watch SE 1st generation to Ultra 😮
*nice video Karl as always!*
“Made by California in Apple” 😂😂😂 .
been waiting to see your reaction to this orange watch 🍊
What size band did you get?
I bought the large one, is it suitable for everyone?  I want to know before I open the box
I love your teach video ✌✌✌🔥🔥🔥
Ugh the choke hold this watch has on me. Like I’m not active like that at all. But it’s so beautiful!!!
Love your videos💗
I absolutely love watching theses unboxing videos cool watch😊. Still absolutely love my Apple Watch Series 6 because it’s paid for and i own it 😁.
What is your wrist measurement in mm
No iPhone, No iPad, no MacBook, no Apple Watch, no camera, no gimbal, no watch, no smartphone …….. but I am still enjoying your videos even so I didn’t own any product I always see your videos . My dream is to become a tech YouTuber you is my role model keep going..also congrats on everything
I think this apple watch was made just for you! The orange is just right. Thank you for making these kind of videos! More power to you! 🧡
I envy you, you can show a positive aura..I'm glad to see it. 😁

Apple watch ultra definitely raises the level of a person's handsomeness.
Always New Things..
You are amazing!
Got mines yesterday, and it’s beautiful! It’s not heavy it actually feels lite, and it’s not to big for my wrist!
is there a leather wrist band?
fast charger?
Thanks for the vid Karl 😊 Love the features love the orange, and I do agree that they should ‘ve match the strap color to the one printed on the box
This watch was really made for him. I mean look at that color. Apple Watch KC.
I watched your likes and put a video on it! LOOOOL Greetings from California in Apple
Why didn’t they bring back Apple Watch Sport? I still have mine
I’m getting mine for work and when I work out every other Apple Watch I had went to shit cause of my work I hope since this is made with titanium is should last hell of longer then my last one lol
This guy reminds me of a Sony Walkman so much orange and white
I’ve been waiting MY WHOLE LIFE FOR THIS!!! I CANT BELIEVE IT?!! Finally… I have the coordinates to Apple headquarters OMG. LIFES COMPLETE😵😵😵😵
I’m getting Apple Watch ultra ⌚️ for my birthday in January 🎉I’m so excited 😆
I knew you would buy the orange one 😂
Niece video karl
That’s good video 😊
I think he likes orange 😂 Amazing video as always and great quality and content
Definitely knew you would get the orange one
If I bought this watch, it would be my very first wrist watch of any kind in many years. And I don’t do any extreme activities and I wouldn’t use half of it. But I desire it anyway 😳
Tried it on today...want!
Love your videos bro, keep it up🙌🏻
In Australia the Apple Watch ultra cost $1300
You're contents are so amazing! You and your team, are just amazing! Thanks for this!
Do some hiking please
I just want to buy it for the battery.
I totally can
Also me with an 6th gen apple watch and still barely utilizing everything it's capable of.
Cool
Do you think the watch durability will do well in a construction work environment?
Got mine yesterday with the alpine green band and I love it 🔥🔥🔥
Ultra things😂
We all know that you're the ULTRA man Karl..
W video as usual
Tbh no one will use it for what it's made for. If you love Apple you will just get it. Same with PRO phones. It's the better version. Nowadays you can buy anything on a monthly instalment interest free.  I am defo getting the Ultra
Let’s test it on a hike with link 🐶
Yesssss, been waiting for this. This watch was tailor made for you, KC lol
Super excited for this product!
I want this watch and I don't even own a iPhone lol
Mine arrived yesterday and I absolutely love it! I hate the alpine strap though but all the other ones are sold out everywhere in the UK 🇬🇧😫
Woooo🥰🥰
The watch was made for you!
Or if you work construction or something along those lines and just want something more durable. Nobody seems to mention that.
His smile when he put it on says it all. Nice vid as usual, Karl🔥
Hey It’s for watch collectors too.
Right in time when i wanted some content informative video as always Karl
Only l love stevejobs I love apple 🍎 but u really good awesome men I like it pro tha world no one apple ❤️👍🍎👌
I’mma get it, but for the price it should have a plug too. Come on apple.
Main thing I'm interested to see is how it stands after heavy usage of all features and battery status at the end of the day
If I buy this watch the most ultra thing I will do is the amount of money that will be sucked out of my bank account in an instant 😂
Had to watch this one as I couldn't wait to hear what Carl will use this for. 🤣 Honestly Not that I don't think he could do a lot of ultra type events, he most certainly could if he wanted to.
I was literally waiting for your videos 🙂
Love from India ❤️😊❤️
Bro casually wearing a 6 thousand dollar watch
You’re so cute 😳🤭❤️❤️❤️
I’m upgrading from my Apple Watch series 7 45mm Aluminium the new Apple Watch ultra because of the new safety features including the new Siren
I thought you were Cristiano Ronaldo 😂
No regular person does the kinds of things this watch does lol regular people will buy it only because it’s something new and different.
What is your wrist size bud? Yeh Large too big you def need an M
I ordered the Ultra two hours after its release. I was told I would have to wait until OCT 21-28 to get it. In other words, I would have to wait until EVERYONE ELSE IN NORTH AMERICA or perhaps the world, has their Ultra before I get mine. My SIN was to order the wrong watch band. The punishment is I will wait at least 6 weeks for my Ultra.  A severe punishment for someone who watches all the Ultra reviews, which now number the hundreds, in the meantime.  It will be OLD before I get it.  I have already thought I should simply cancel my order.
Bought this Ultra, don’t care about the price , like it pretty much, I’m an Apple sheep 🐑
This is great. The regular Apple Watch fits a woman & male adult below 6 feet with smaller/average hands just fine. However if you’re an adult male that’s over 6 feet tall with larger hands this Ultra is perfect. I’m 6’5” and the regular (larger 45mm) Apple Watch looks absurd on me. It’s comical. Looks like a happy meal toy. I want something with some meat on it, that’s proportional to my hands and frame. Such a great move on Apples part. I’ve wanted something like this for years.
Funny how I called out the scammers to reply on my comment and they replied. I commented on their reply, then that comment was deleted and youtube was asking for permission to access my microphone. Hmmmm, not suspicious at all.
People who spends $1000 on watch should get a mechanical one and not a smartwatch tbh
Is that cristiano ronaldo?
😁😁😁👍👍👍
Its amazing how the scammers target you in particular. Hi Scammers, please comment on this comment and tell me what I won and what Telegram account that I should reply to!
✌✌✌✌✌
1st Comment!
1st view 🤘🤘🤟
First😊
Too expensive for indians
Looks and feels stupid cheap phone
whats the old watch called!@?!@?!?!
💥This video is all about what you can ACTUALLY do with the Apple Watch Ultra and all it's amazing features! 
🔥Check out one of the COOLEST Apple Watch Accessories 👉🏻 https://amzn.to/3fmCvBY
🔥Check out Spigen for some of the BEST bumpers & screen protectors 👉🏻 https://amzn.to/3UgMQOQ
Red light, in any capacity, is used for saving your night vision. That’s why most headlamps and lighting gear meant for outdoor use has a red light mode. Red light makes it much easier to still see in the dark after you turn the light off whereas white light means you’ll have to wait several minutes for your eyes to adjust.
The transition of lines from one section of the video to another is just mind blowing and very well scripted! Hats off to your hard work! 🔥
Why I like her … all she does is review. No criticism and put personal preference and comparisons to other products. Just detail and fun review. 👏🏿👏🏿👏🏿👏🏿
I have a black Series 7 Titanium with the black stainless link band and just bought the Ultra that I use with the Apple silver stainless link band from a Series 5 which I traded in. It matches perfectly. Anyway, I LOVE your videos. I must have watched a half dozen other how-to videos to learn the Ultra features but I learned so much more just spending 10 minutes with yours. For instance, I didn’t know about tapping the face ring to bring up the compass along with some other tricks! Your production is top notch and you are so easy to watch and learn from. Thanks for all of your hard work!
I love your positive attitude about every feature of the products you review. It really makes me appreciate and know the capabilities of the Apple Products I have purchased!  I have never watched one of your reviews and felt I made the wrong purchase choice!
With the waypoint for your car, it actually does it automatically whenever you disconnect from your car Bluetooth. The maps app always marks your parked location and the AW also gets this saved in waypoint. Very very cool stuff
I love how she interconnected all the parts of the video, love the presentation btw
Wow! Such a great video. Got my ultra yesterday. Thanks for such an informative video with very detailed informations. Cheers 🎉
Hi love your videos, I would like to know if Apple Watch Ultra can work without third-party apps?
any pay apps?
it still works the same?
I'm tired of Apple charging for everything. 
does it have something ultra without the third-party apps?
Very informative. Just purchased by watch today, and thanks to Hayla, exploring all the cool features. Her coverage and the energy in her videos is simply outstanding!
Great video!  The Ultra is my first Apple Watch, so I’ve watch tons of videos on it.  This was the first one that I learned some really cool stuff that no one had mentioned before!  Great job!
Man I love Hayls coverage! 

Thanks for finally explaining waypoints/Backtrack in detail, in only a few moments! 
You’re making me love my Ultra all the more!
Most of the Tip videos on the iWatch Ultra is a waste of time unless your life centers around hiking, running, or other activities.  This review is one of the best out there.  Thank you so much, I understand and appreciate my watch a whole lot more, thanks to you.
Your work really speaks volumes on the hard work you do
Thx for this video. Exactly what I needed. My ultra is on the way😊
That was awesome Hayley. My watch tells the time to me in a robot voice. Love it
By far the most in depth video I have seen on the Ultra thanks and keep them coming.
You are THE BEST product reviewer/instructor anywhere. Thank you.❤
I watch your videos for tech but also for my mental health. I mean the positive energy is amazing. Keep it up 😇
You are absolutely the best! Thanks! I love my ultra even more now! 😍
I got mine today as a birthday present to myself and I am very happy. THANK YOU SO MUCH for this video.
WatchOS 10 will be able to do a lot of new things! For many athletes one of the most important features is the opening of the API for 3rd party training programs like TrainingPeaks. With TP, many athletes realize the communication to the trainer and he creates the plans, for example, for running intervals. These had to be programmed manually or run with another app. This is possible from WatchOS 10. In addition, you can pair Bluetooth sensors such as watt crank or cadence.
Thank you! I absolutely had no idea of those features. Keep ‘‘em coming!
your way of recording and editing movies is a great inspiration for me🙏
This is a definite "MUST HAVE"!!!! 🔥🔥🔥🔥🤯🤯
To me You stand out with your contents, edits and so on. Love 🧡
One of the best reviews as always, thank you for detailed information and bonus tips ❤👍
Thank you for detailed video, saved my money and went for series 8. 😅
great review, looking forward to your comparison of the Ultra against the Garmin Epix
Even though I honestly don't afford most of the gadgets being reviewed on this channel, 😂😂😂 it's always satisfying to watch your videos. ❤
Really enjoyed the Vid and learned so much more on the Ultra. you really need to take a class on all the features.  I've always been a watch fan and now that Apple has come out with this new style, I'm in on a New Look. I had a stainless 3 and now have a Blue 6 so ready to upgrade. Thanks for your help on confirming my decision.  Great Channel!! 🙂
I picked up the ultra with the midnight ocean band.
I’ve been waiting for this video 😂 I love your videos hayls ❤ tysm for the tips and tricks!
Absolutely fun and technical video. LOVIN’. IT! 🎉
So far the best review I’ve seen about Apple Watch Ultra. It’s a tool, not just a watch - spot on.!
Never owned a smartwatch. Do I dive straight in and get the ultra?
Some advice says the se is enough.
I've watched a pile of Ultra videos and 90% of the content in this video was news to me. Excellent information! Thank you!!
I love your editing style keep it up ❤️
Hayls , your each and every video is a treat to watch , the ammount of effort you guys put in these videos is amazing. Thanx for all the informative yet entertaining videos , greetings from India 🙏❤️
Great video!  Thanks.  How useful is this watch if I only use the wifi connection and not cell connection?
Liked your objective review. Got my Ultra yesterday and have it setup pretty well but can’t find how to have the top face complication show while compass ring is displayed. Any help?
Got the AW6, I’ll upgrade when the long talked about glucose monitoring is a feature
Great job! That's way better than reading the manual.  💯
When do you think the Shortcuts app will allow Strava for the quick launch, that would be a handy addition. Great video btw!
I really enjoy your Apple tips, tricks and hidden features....great job!!!
Ordering mine February first.
sold me on watching YouTube ty for being so detail, will buy after this.
Just got mine! It's amazing!!!!!
I bought ultra today it’s awesome
Totally clean show!  More info than I have  seen,  Good job.   Cheers!
Thank you for a really good video on this watch.  Because of this, I just ordered.  Been undecided until now.  Excellent presentation.
Great video ,I love your enthusiasm. Keep ‘‘em coming
A really great Video done with such enthusiasm.  I'm using the dive function in Fiji in July, looking forward to it.  The WatchTube is somehow non functional on my watch and the app doesn't download.  Something is up with it and the WatchMusic is inactive too unfortunately
I just bought my Ultra and fascinated by your review-best I have seen. However,I can’t find if you can have outer ring showing the compass dia and still see the top complication I have chosen. Can you help?
I love the Apple Watch Ultra! Best impulsive purchase
OMG! This watch is the best 😮
So, most of these features are available in series 8 as well, right? What features here compared to the previous gen
I've watched a bunch of Apple Watch Ultra reviews and I learned the most from this one :)
Your attention to detail and ability to make everything feel like magic is such a blessing to those around you 🥺Thank you for shining your light in the world and for being so positive and being so sweet! Can’t wait to watch 🍂 Appreciate you so much 💕
I have recently jumped ship to Apple from Samsung and while searching for tips and tricks videos on Apple watch , came across Hayls video. I gotta hand it over to her on her presentation and video arrangement. She keeps the video engaging and quite entertaining. No wonder she has over a million subscribers. I am now one of them and I will look forward to her new videos.
Wow Wow what a watch!! I’m purchasing it this week 🎉
@HaylsWorld  Please provide iPhone Activity Circles Wallpaper to download. I cant find anywhere. Thanks!
Helpful, thanks!!!
I’m waiting for the next Gen in hopes it has a BMI sensor , like some of the competition
I'm not an Apple guy but this watch is amazing. Thanks for this vid.
This is one of the best videos I have watched
I just love your videos hayls , very informative thank you 😘
I love the night mode the view is awesome.
Thanks Hays love your presentation and definitely on the way to buy it…. When I save up for it 😂 but love your shows and great video! ❤
Thanks for the cool n informative review… buying on my next birthday 🎉 … 3rd March 😀
Love itttt especially the vanish mode at the end, it worked also for me :)
This video is everything
can u add a livestream widget to check on ur security camera on the ultra watch?
Wow. It goes red. 🎉
Thank you girl. That is it
You are the best tech YouTuber in the world I Loved Your Contents and BGM Also
I have the XS Max and Series 4 Watch.  Will be ordering the iPhone 15 max and Ultra 2!!!!!!
Ottimo video , il migliore che ho visto ed ho imparato anche qualcosa, complimenti .
Belle pure le unghie arancioni in tono con i tasti .
What a exceptional 5 * video excellent directions and execution of every aspect of this iwatch ultra 49 mm In operation! Thank you 🙏 ♥️
Your video editing 👌 next level 👌
Cheers Hayls, good review, got my ultra for Xmas 👍
Awesome review 👌🏽.
Your videos are always so useful and incredibly fun to watch!
Does the Ultra come stock with Nike???
Excellent tips and tricks, bravo !
Another good review. Thank you. I’m getting an Ultra for Christmas.  Can’t wait!
Loved ur review ❤❤❤❤
Can you please share your shortcut script on how to open spotify using action button? ❤
That watch actually looks cool and is useful
This is the best music design on YouTube in this genre. You're so good! Are you mounting it yourself or the team?
Most Amazing Review of Ultra 🎖🎖🎖
Hello I’m not sure if you know the answer to this question. I want to know can you send and receive text messages on the Apple Watch from using an android phone with my old Apple phone tuned off? I’m thinking of switching from an Apple to an android phone and still want to know will the Apple Watch still work?
This watch is definitely what I need, after I had a serious effects to my lung from COVID Delta. I have to do all them safety features stuff you mentioned, I have to keep track of my Blood Oxygen levels, falls, heart rate issues WOW unbelievable. Do not work now because of these issues and many others. I live in Canada and it is way out of my price range her. I believe in Canada that is going for $1049.
Aight im gonna buy the ultra
I was deeply in love with the watch until I saw u ❤❤❤
What a fantastic video full of features I did not know existed. Well presented with a lovely smile. Thank you. MM UK Wales😁
I had the series 1 stainless steel and sapphire... that watch went through hell with me working on cars and doing all sorts... the sapphire glass never ever showed a single scratch or mark, even when the case was dinged and scratched. Eventually the battery swelled and the face popped off, and it's now in a drawer. Then my friend felt sorry for me and gave me his old series 4... filled the gap. Now I have an Ultra finally and it's freakin' amazing! As a fan of product design and quality engineering, this thing is a joy to behold. I'm fairly old, so have been promised this kind of thing since Seiko debuted the TV watch in Japan in the 80's... as a 10yo kid I was so obsessed I wrote to Seiko UK asking where I could get one, as there was no internet and when I asked in the shops I was told there was no such product. Seiko wrote back to me and told me they were only available in Japan, and really I'm glad because in reality they were a very compromised device, not a good TV and not a good watch either. 

It just amazes me how far tech has come since the 80's and even the 90's when 'wearable tech' was touted as the next big thing but in reality coming up short, and I love that I have this miniature embodiment of that progress on my wrist.
I am literally waiting for your videos weekly. Your content is really great and appreciate your efforts. Love from india
Hey Hayl, thanks for the review. What’s that wallpaper on your pro? Nice touch with the nails 👌🏻
Great video video lots of useful information thank you. You make it so simple
your ring, love it!!
I just love her voice 🔆
Hayls world hey how are you??? When will u update ipad pro 12.9 2022. I want to buy and waiting for ur impressions
First time seeing one of your videos, and I wanted to congratulate you on having such a great pace and script! Even though I knew most of the features, I just felt like I had to watch the whole thing! Features just kept falling from the sky like a longer but fast paced YouTube short. Loved it!
You’re a great motivator , my daughters gift it to me an now I like it more after watching this video Thanks!!!
Let’s keep it simple….. you the best!🎉
Nail polish matches action button! That's attention to detail! Nice job! (BTW the red flashlight is to protect night vision just like the red watch face.)
But dose the gps dose all the features work without service
Good day! Is there any way to get at least whatsup notifications to watch (cellular model) while using Samsung?
hey i just want to ask if you can do a review of the O.M.G S1 Pro Smartwatch because i was searching for 5 weeks if somwane did a review of this watch but no one did so can you please do a review about this smartwatch PLS
Heyaa! Love your work! Question. Does this watch have pushup workout? :)
What’s better the ultra or series 8?
Hello, can you please tell me which app should I download to track water exercises
Can I just say that this is so cool
is it damaging to us 35 wats charger
Great video! I’ve been an Apple Watch user for many years since the original and never used the sleep tracking feature. Watching this video I decided to start using it with my series 7. Can’t wait for my Ultra to arrive.
Nicely done! You’re awesome, thanks so much!
What is that thing spinning behind you in your intro? Thanks. ❤

I want!! 🤣
Got to get this watch.
I think I like her better than the great watch ?
Red mode flash light is for use at night if you need your eyes to stay adjusted to the darkness/..
Tx 4u vid, see u vid, i purchased 1. I like all of u vid..so good..
A lot of great info!! Thank you
I need this watch for when I park in a multilevel and I forget which floor I left my car in. I've gotten lost so many times!😅
You are amazing sister 
Thanks alot 🌹🌹🌹
Are you gonna do a apple watch se video to? Because i'm gonna buy my first apple watch and it is the se so i hope you gonna do an apple watch se video to
Apple Watch Ultra is 🔥
Your subscribe ring is the most badass thing I've ever seen!!!  Your video, by itself, is absolutely amazing, the cuts, Transitions, fonts w/ borders, graphix, the  Benz, the high quality N A P  T I M E 😴💤-- all of which are near & dear to my heart-- I mean, you name it, YOU GOT IT*!!! 

*all apologizes in advance to my mother for butchering the English language there, but it was only for effect, mom!!  At least if want for "affect"😂😂😂!!
All that jazz 🎉
Love your tutorials / videos explaining the technicals, but the wrist temperature also doesn't seem to be working for you, visible on your video.
Bought today after watching your review…
My Ultra is in the mail. 
I can’t wait. 
I had a Garmin Fenix 7 Sapphire Solar and I’m not sure how I did it but I broke it a couple days ago. I was just going to get another Garmin, but decided I’d try the Apple.
just too god in details and tricks! awesome!
Hands down....best review I've seen to date. Thank you for showcasing this better than Apple. lol
great video very helpful thanks. Cheers.
Superb review..
I am first user for iphone 14 pro. Please upload iphone 14 pro full tips and tricks mam.😊😊😊😊
Does this watch computes body composition and heart rate
One of the best Tech Youtubers in my opinion 😊😊😊
First love from Nepal🇳🇵
Beautiful ❤️
I have Ultra will U please tell me if i lost my phone how can i use GPS??
Thanks 😊
We are waiting for iPad Pro m2 tips and tricks. Please do make a video and post soon.
Can you please tell me if the MUSI app works on the ultra
You r very good in rxppaine every setting
Getting mine Friday and I got for $120 off great video
It is possible to make tha action button turn Nike app on for running??or Strava app?? How did you set the Nike watch on the screen?? Please someone help me?
wow did not know my ultra can do that!
can i put the strava app on my action button? if so how please?
Weirdly enough with my Apple Watch Ultra. I can’t get the shortcut to come up to open Spotify for me it with the action button. 😢
I have the Apple Watch series 7 . Can it be add on ?
Excelente contenido
Please do review on Iwatch series 8
I am crazy and have upgraded to every Apple Watch since original. This year upgraded from 7 to 8. After got 8 started watching reviews on Ultra and decided to get it and try it. Couple times went back and forth between the two and preferred one over the other. I put on the 8 yesterday after wearing the Ultra all weekend and that didn’t last long as I put the Ultra back on. Just can’t do without the Ultra and I do workout at home a lot but don’t do extreme sports and won’t.
All that jazz, quite nifty
Happy Tuesday!
ultra looks very rough.  but still a great video as always
Nice help thanks
Just to let you know, the red light is for lowlight flashlight, used in the military when they don’t want others to know their location.  Great video!
A-M-A-Z-I-N-G video!!!!!!! thanks !!!!!
I love this review.  You kept it informative , but not overwhelming.  Question: Where did you find that wallpaper for your iPhone ?
love you ❤
Wow amazing ❤❤❤
Can we connect airpods to it
Wow 🤩
Can you please start filming and 17:9 dynamic island does not cut into the display please thanks
Red light is to preserve night vision in dark settings to keep your pupils small, so that when you turn the flashlight off, the dark room doesn’t appear darker from when you first started.
After watching this video, IM SO GETTING THIS (I’m 14 years old). Should it be recommended for me?
Thats great.
I started following you as I saw your  video of fold 4...class video...good homework and presentation and audio absolutely clear
Can u do the ultra 2?
Awesome video thanks so much
I’ve recently had to sell my Casio G Shock Mudmaster, I’m seriously considering getting an Apple Watch Ultra 🤔 not had a smart watch since I had a Garmin Fenix 6. I like the design and features of the Ultra over the 8. Going to see what deal I can pick one up with my cellular carrier.
Great video! my ultra will be here in a couple hours and appreciate the great video and look forward to trying some of them! You knocked it out the park! ✌️
Haw to editing you video 
Plz link
i love ur videos so much and I like the subscribe ring that u have , I bought the I phone SE3 after I've seen ur video about it
thanks!
Please can you help find the silver band in the video 9:00 minutes (below right)
Garmin fenix 7x, tactix 7, enduro 2,
The best watch for serious athlete! 
30 days autonomy and more.
Just bought Apple Watch Ultra. Action button for shortcut (apple music) does not work. Getting this error message "MPAssistantErrorDomain". 

Anyone having the same issues?
isnt it waterproof to 40m?
Can you tell me....Is this a clone watch or the original one
best rivuuuuu ever
Interesting and educational. 👏🏼
Came to see the Apple watch ultra features, but loved your cool Subscribe Ring! what a neat idea! may I ask where did you get it?
Awesome😍😍
The blood oxygen came out on the 6, fall detection was out on the 6 or earlier, the DB meter was on the 6 also. So was the alarm.
Wow amazing love from india
waypoint and backtrack available on non ultra models
Excellent as always,,,thats why I subscribe!,,,best feature to me ,,4:14 nightscreen 🌙 👌,,I prowl at night 🦉
I can’t find my compass menu anywhere. Anyone know where I can find it?
Just subscribed because of your voice ❤
Love from INDIA ❤️❤️
Good Stuff.
I love your videos such a cool chick I've the galaxy watch pro 5 I love it but could get this for my wife her driving isn't the best 😂
I would like to see you take the Apple Watch Ultra and go hiking or running or biking or something with it and show us your day doing that or do you one where you’re just wearing it and you’re not using the phone you just using the Taylor off the watch and see how many hours you can get of you salivate, paying for everything with it and other things
So I bought 2 watches Ultra cellular 4 days ago and very disappointed I’m getting a call fail if someone call me and both Phone and Watch are close by then i walk away leaving the phone away and talking on the watch after reaching some distance when the phone and watch get disconnected from Bluetooth I’m getting a call fail until the watch start using his data apple and my carrier ATT telling me watch shouldn’t be working like that but no one give me a solution I’m returning both watch next week if no one resolve this problem apparently happening to everyone just not all people are aware about this issue any tips or help ? 
Thanks
 Waiting for Apple Watch series 8’s Review.❤
How do you add the spotify into shortcut. I dont find it there 🥹
Thank you girl. That is it
My old e watch does all of that except the new features
very helpful video.
I’m still waiting for this video 😊
Nice presentation, very impressive Good job
Lovely
Great video.
You are amazing,, thank you
You’re awesome I love you and I love your show
It’s actually certified for diving up to 40 meters, right? According to Apple.
The compass is never right. Anyway to fix it? Calibrate it?
When I say I love her I really mean it like she help me with every electronic I have in my home thank you so much you are a savior and one thing it makes me lazy I just buy and go straight to your channel lmao 😅
Awesome video
Best video’s. other YouTubers to slow and show more them head than the gadgets
I love your videos keep it up waiting to see you with mrwhosethebosd
I love your voice❤
Fantastic video...
watchtube not downloading 😢
The best
Action button could be useful if it were able to turn on Shazam or Navigation.
Hey Hayls, you’re pretty ultra ❤
you are great!
Trick Apple wow i like it
why is your action button on the outside of your wrist instead of the inside?
All right mam you are teaching us  very cute comedy and pretty way 😂😂😂.....loved your videos..❤❤❤❤
Hi Hayls'World Love Watching Your Video, as All time we do....🥳🥰 Keep raining on us with your videos and we will enjoy the rain (videos)
Awesome video
Damn the editing in this video is next level
Good channel! How could I get the Nike face?
Your video is very helpful Nice work I like your attitude. Love 😘 from India
Great video! Subscribed.
Love the video thanks Hayls 👍👏♥️ you the best 🤗♥️love you ❤️😘♥️
I only purchase my gadgets after seeing your assessments of them, so congratulations on a job well done. Ideally, you should create films the day the devices are released rather than waiting a few weeks.
The hearing one is annoying. Top down in the jeep it goes off all the time from wind lol
Alsow tell if whatsapp its work? App ?
Those of us who are into Amateur Astronomy use red lights to save our night vision (ruined with white light and takes a long time to readjust).  It is useful enough for us that this is the single most important item for me on this watch!
Super
NEED the siren on the action button!! 😔
The red flashlight is for at night as the colour red don't interrupt your night vision.
Beautiful 😍. I’d love to head south with you
the 'subscribe ring' is so skillfull!
I like your very honest tech videos and I liked them
Background music sounds like the Signfield show.
Waiting forApple  watch 8
Voice Recorder Hayle??..would like to record ya voice with it
Please make video on tablet
very beautiful
Good 👍
I went ice skating and I was surprised apple watch did not have this type of workout.
I'm hoping to buy this! One day! Never owned a smarth watch , after buying the iPhone slowly getting pulled into the apple ecosystem
Great video and laughed hard at the hidden Dr. Dre reference in there! 😂😂😂
Very informative!! Thanks!
Yeah! I'm like #900!
The red flashlight is there to keep your eyes still in sleep mode when you turn it on in the middle of the night, becuase if you use the white flashlight it will break the night mode eyes and wake them up
How the hell do I get my wrist temperature? I have tracked my sleep more than 5 days it doesn’t show anything.
A wonderful upload as always
And the only "action" Apple is getting is you talking about it 🤣🤣🤣🤣🤣
I want torch on action button in sleep mode
Awesome video, loved my Ultra before, even more now! Thanks Hayls!
this the best apple watch and you are the most beautiful and cool presenter and female you tuber
Would the siren help a person being assaulted?
Aren't 90% of those features same for the Series 8?
Can anyone help me how to block a phone number on ultra watch ? I block on my phone but messages still going through my watch .
I press action button on my watch and this happens: detects what song is playing, then finds album for this song in apple music, then adds this album to my apple music library and it shows me notification with album cover. All with one physical botton click. Oh, and I get haptic feedback on my wrist if album is found (vibrate x2) or if not (vibarte x1). So I don't even need to look at the watch to know if album was found. How cool is that. 

Anyone else has some cool ides for shortcut? Please share.
A watch that would start my car,  luck and unlock my doors. Do just about anything I want it to do is worth paying $800.
wow Boss You deserve a standing Ovation .  You're genius like Heaven lady how do you know every new apple gadgets all hidden features what a pretty Gorgeous Cutie pie Angel you're on Earth. 🥰😇😘😘😘😘🤩😘😘
I was writing down notes.
You definitely are one of my favorites youtubers 🙌🏻 greetings from Dominican Republic
Seems to be the ideal technology to have especially all of those Californians stuck in the snow for weeks and can be located via satellite.
Digital breadcrumbs 😘 …. Hayls , you’ve got that video 🥰
The new Apple Watch will have video call. Might not be in a newer series or another ultra. But it’s definitely coming soon.
Key hal h g
best coverage i've seen on youtube, and I saw EVERY VIDEO ON YOUTUBE hahaha even from 500-2000 subscribers channel
I love ❤️  you
Strap on!
Just got the notification
Thanks!
The action button options are limited and need to be addressed
Please can you show us how to update iwatch to new watchOS9, I've been finding this difficult to do for months now, my watch was working perfectly until i update my phone to iOS16, it stop working so i tried to unpair my watch from my iPhone, since then whenever i tried to connect my watch with my phone it will ask me to downlod the new watchOs on my watch I've tried all my best but i can't do this and many people are facing same problem can you please teach us how to do this, Thanks for always enlighten us🙏🌹
Want this watch not sure it is responsible to buy. This video helps with making that decision
Ok, I feel a bit silly. I don't have the 14 iPhone, still on 13 Pro Max..so no crash detection. BUT I did get the Ultra...and this has Crash Detection. I had NO IDEA! 😂
Love form India ❤️
You are a awesome reviewer. I really like your channel and the ending when you disappeared was Super cool, just saying 😂
Love the channel my son does too he thinks you are the real kurmit the frog 🐸 voice over lol sorry for my spelling anyways we love your videos!!!
I Love You girl xxxxx from Cyprus
Hi
An you send sms vs this watch?
mine broke down after 6 days after a long swim... bizar.
How come my ultra doesn’t have the shortcut option 😮😮
Which hand would you like to wear watch?
Helpful video, thank you!
❤️
how about walkie talkie? do they have on ultra too?
I don't know why I watch tech videos of yours even I can't buy anything 🤣
no camera ( ? )
There is no denying the fact that the population of any country is a very strong indicator of how exactly the country will function in the future and what its capabilities are as a nation. Leaders of the world pay a lot of attention to their country’s population for the same reason. The population and the skills that they possess are perhaps some of the most essential assets for any country. The following article is an essay on the topic of population and has been structured in a way that students of all ages can learn and understand the key points that they need to mention whenever they are writing an essay like this.
Super
Am i the only one who noticed "Deez nuts" as allergy and reactions at 5:59 😂. Lol
Ur my idol
Yor are so beautiful 😍
Dyam fine
Apple also has the best heartrate and sleep tracking and the GPS accuracy is only beaten by Garmin, which is very impressive. 36 hours of battery life for an €800 watch is not very good though.
Hlo
❤
I am getting this watch for my birthdqy
Great video! Do you have a link to the bottom right square where you showed the 4 watch bands ? It was the metal link band. I can’t seem to find it in your Amazon store , thanks !!
Damned, you should do advertising for Apple :)
Now I want to change from my Watch 7 to Ultra :D :D
Nice Video
Wow just wow!! Lol
There is also a trick or treat workout within activities 😂
Apple Watch Ultra? Samsung hybrid?
I was just told by Apple support that only 3 Apple radio stations are playable on Music app on Apple Watches. These Apple affiliate youtube channels weren't helpful in pointing things like this out, they're literally selling these products.
Is that punjabi music in the background? 
Those medical allergies tho 😂😂😂 good one Hayls
hey how are u I watch that enjoy
My only critique is that a lot of the features you showed are not specific to the ultra
I be damn, she disappeared too. I had to hit like. Good review, looking forward to more videos from you.
I have no apple watch and I need one. Can anyone help me plz?
Apple Watch Ultra is the best Apple Watch ever made
I think I’m obsessed with this… “The more you know….”
Less caffeine
Cool content. :D
Support 💯🙏 from Nepal 🇳🇵🙏
Ultra is a great watch like all the others but for me its kind of a waste of money cuz you can get all those features in other apple watches too.
Alot of features is missing like the camera and so on..
It has more features than my phone😂😂
I will have to change my name in health app which is currently showing hard hammer
The intro of the video gave Mr.Beast vibes
Just set mine up. Don’t need it for more than half of that shit. Just wanted to upgrade from my series 4 and found it for significantly less on eBay 👌🏾. I always said I couldn’t see myself paying over 250 for an Apple Watch. Always bought them used. But. . . I guess 600 that bad 🤣
Should I really switch from Android to Apple for this watch?  I don't think so 🤔😅🤪
Hello mem love from india
brilliant vid. As I'm about to subscribe I think your vids need to be more Scottish to make me feel more at home. so if you could throw in a ugh aye the noo and whit you looking at pall that would be most welcome and  if you don't like something then say this is utter pish.  xx thanks
These features are on all the apple watches- this particular one is not special other that that extra button-- which is not really needed)
👍
love your voice
If you can buy all of these can you get me one.
I still choose my Galaxy watch 4 over the apple watch ultra even the future ones
that watch is humongous on your wrist Hayls lol
i'm feeling some German vibes on this chanel, don't know why.... i have to connections with Germany 😄
Best smartwach? Naaaaa to be honest who need all these features?
Your awesome... your name pls... I'd love to collaborate with your for Fluid Dynamics!! Perfect promoter
😉😉😉
I really like my Ultra after 2 weeks of ownership. The only caveat is that I find the action button a disappointment so far. Yes, you can set it to turn on the flashlight or start a walk but where how do you do more exciting things with it? I know 3rd party apps need to make changes to enable use on the Ultra but even mundane things like workout - play golf don't seem possible. I am sure this will get better in time though.
I just feel like it’s huge
She talks Apple commercials faster than I can absorb.Just on par with iJustine... Apple is happy about that.I own the Ultra, just saying....
Oh, video finished and still waiting for the Hidden Features!
I started busting out laughing when you had deez nuts listed as an allergy lmao that is so funny I love it haha immediately added it as an allergy.
I’m a YouTube creator. You do a great job!!!  Keep up the great work!!!!
I am Bangladeshi
“Allergies: Deez Nutz”. Amazing
U r my crush 😘 babes
Once you’ve slept with Apple Watch Ultra, you pop baby Apple Watch Ultra few months back. Set a timer for that!
It might be the best Apple watch out there but it's not the best watch out there
So basically it do anything other smart watch can do.
I have a apple watch ultra but its a fake smartwatch like yours hayls world its called a wiwu apple watch ⌚
No one sleeps with a watch on your wrist😂
Toddles 😘
when your editors watch too much mkbhd
Only l love stevejobs I love apple 🍎 but u really good awesome girl I like it pro tha world no one apple ❤️👍🍎
FUCK YES
Her allergies 😂😂
Hey hi , this Sai from India , I’m literally waiting for your videos …please create videos regularly
Were you able to sleep with it :P!? I feel it's too heavy
Lovely content always. Btw I want to be a tech YouTuber like you. Pls can I email you plsss. I know it's a bit random but plssss. I've always wanted to be a YouTuber
I’m going to buy this, but I won’t be sleeping with it on. I just can’t sleep with a watch, rings, or jewelry in general. The sleep tracking isn’t something I will ever use.
10:05 If only we could set the voice as mickey...
i have seen my share of beautiful woman, i can tell one thing you are awesome
Haw are you mam
Allergies: “deez nuts” Lmaoo
This video is sponsored by 🍏
8:43 looks like you broke the screen with the hammer
Great stuff!!But you speak way, way too fast!
100m water RESISTANT not waterproof.Also a huge red flag when Apple avoids the term waterproof and says 40m SWIMproof.
There are CONDITIONS to be met with any standard and under certain conditions  pretty much nothing is waterproof and why the term resistance is used.
Red flag when any content creator throws in the term BEST with said product "best" is an opinionated term but it was not stated IMO but was stated simply the BEST !!.
This person seems to be somehow affiliated with Apple and I do see links could also be affiliated with Amazon for kickbacks.I would also assume this watch was received for free which also SHOULD be noted in the video.
This video is inaccurate, some of these features are not exclusive to the ultra
The most stupid think in that watch is that you can set the wake up alarm in sleep mode that will only work when you have your watch on your wrist, but not in the nightstand mode! You can only use regular alarm (no custom sounds for example) in the nightstand mode... genius.
I can't even afford an iphone I'm using a budget smartphone 
Don't know why I'm watching this😭
She is the female version of Whosetheboss.
😭😭😭 DEEZ NUTZ
Can you pls give me one latest Samsung phone in you collection I hate my phone
tip!!!! and trks, the trk is we about to rob you!! and the tip, naw!!!!
Lol Deez Nuts on the medical alert function.
So cute ☺️☺️☺️☺️ nice 👍🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩🇧🇩 Bangladesh
Even your ring has "SUBSCRIBE" engraved?😳😳😳
It can't be brighter than Galaxy pro5 watch. This is totally misleading.
why you parked car on a grass?
Only 1k I will take 2 please.
This is off-topic but are you a libra   By any chance?
You are showing the features of Watch ultra as if they are newly and exclusively to this Watch whereas these are the features available across all Apple Watches since ages… review seems more like Apple sponsored 🙈
😩😩😩😢😢❤❤❤
Allergies..Deez Nuts🤣
Oh my God, I have allergies Deez nuts too 😓
Wwuuuuuuut 1 deep sleep, how do you do that 🥹
tree of knowledge amen save the bees buy the trees #renewables #weedfromcali #swissballyandrallymightytally
“…very unique…” Error.
a ripoff which has all almost all the features costs less than 25 usd so imagine how much this costs apple maybe like 10 bucks and they sell it for 900
in FUTUTEURE IOS & ANDROID WILL BE LIKE RELIGION OR POLITICAL PARTY, WHERE SOME PEOPLE FORCE OTHERS TO USE BETWEEN ONE OF THIS BIG COMPANY.

AND BELIEVE OR NOT APPLE IS DEVELOPING IT'S OWN SEARCH ENGINE AND IT CHANGE HOW SEARCH WORK IN FUTURE WHICH WILL SOMEHOW MAKE APPLE MORE POWERFUL AND INFLUENTIAL.
Cool Watch, but nobody needs it. smh
it's just too big
To bad it wont work if you have tattoos on your wrists :(
First time seeing it on a girl and it's just way too big.
Ultra is cool with its new features but for me its so ugly
Impressive, but lots of useless info
Deez Nutz 😂😂😂
Deez Nutz 😂😂😂
Destroy your handy if you want get back your freedom. Don’t pay 1000€ for loosing your freedom.
the watch isnt water proof dont listen to that
Deez nuts 😂😂😂
For being a girl she is talented
soo lame............ '' all that jazz ''!!!!!!!!!
Just got mine today!  Beautiful, it feels so big and solid like my old Breitling Emergency watch.  I gotta say though, feels like it’d be a big watch for a small girl.  Though it looks ok on your wrist… do you have giant man-hands?  Oh I forgot gender doesn’t exist - except only when woke people need it to exist to make some ridiculous argument that they absolutely would never agree with if "gender" were replaced with "race" ("trans-black IS black", for example).  Remember, gender and race are both "social constructs" according to the Woke Church.   But when i say my 0.2% African ancestry makes me african American, and I identify as black, and i can say any "n-word" I want as such, and I’m waiting for my reparations and affirmative action points, oddly the woke leftists start foaming at the mouth, stomping like donkey kong, and throwing feces everywhere.  Even more oddly, it’s only the white ones who flip out.  The black people usually find it amusing.  Sorry for the tangent.  But yea awesome watch, I just thought it would be awkward for people with small wrists, whether it’s a 5 foot tall girl or 4 foot tall Robert "The Third" Reich (a pile of shit has no gender, it’s just an "it").
THIS CHICK IS JUST A BIT STUCK ON HERSELF.
Why do you talk like that?
Your voice is like male
Apple Watch Ultra is here.  What do you think of it and did you pick one up?  Thanks for watching, it is always appreciated.
Aaron has to be the best commentator for tech on YouTube. He doesn’t speak too fast. He doesn’t speak too slow he’s actual and factual and not opinionated. He’s polite and gracious. I really enjoy  watching his reviews. They’re very detailed and to the point without taking all day with unnecessary banter.
Loving mine, got it yesterday from a store walk in. Love the flat screen, the larger appearance and so far the longer, better battery. I got it with the green alpine, but I am using my Nomad straps and they work really well, and look great on the Ultra.
I just got mine today. I had wanted the Trail Loop, but nothing was available here other than one with the Midnight Ocean loop. When I picked it up, the Apple store had a Starlight Alpine loop available separately, so I got it too. I've never had an (off)white loop, but it looks great actually. I like the way the Alpine loops feel when on. Super secure and light.  A little more trouble to put on, but not that much, and I don't take the watch on and off multiple times a day anyway. I may stay with it rather than ordering the Trail Loop when it is available.  The Midnight Ocean loop is not bad too, and I'll likely use it when doing something water focused.  
As for the watch itself, I like it more than I thought I would. This is my 4th Apple watch, and because of the size, is the easiest to read of them all. I need reading glasses, and with this watch I can use it to some extent even without them, so that is great.  Too early to say about the battery life, but based on what I've heard it will go a couple days and nights, so that will be helpful.
Got mine a few hours ago and I’m absolutely amazed!! This will truly take the Apple Watch to the next level going forward!!!
“Probably won’t scratch unless you bump into a diamond 💎 “ lol 😂 because I am always bumping into diamonds 💎
I bought mine yesterday. Was kind of a pain to set up but once it was done it’s great. So far I’m very pleased with it. It replaces my old Apple Watch which I kept,what they offered me in trade in wasn’t much. The pulse oximetry feature is a bit erratic,gives varying results if you move at all. ECG is more stable than my Apple Watch 6. I like the green band,one of my favorite colors.
Great unboxing as always. Your the only one that has actually gone through the set up process instead of skipping forward. Thank you for that!
Just picked mine up and returning my series 8 stainless steel! This watch feels more premium and the display is amazing. Great review as alway!
Literally just got mine … straight after work , got it delivered to my local store. It’s special… it’s like the original Apple Watch ⌚️ something new … I hike and fly drones so this is perfect for me … enjoy
Just received mine, absolutely fantastic. Ordered mine with the orange band. Does not feel any heavier than my 7 series aluminum.  Much less than my Garmin that I tried last year. Great job Apple.
Literally been waiting for this all day!
Just picked mine up. Love it. So happy I got it. I have a 165mm wrist and it looks fine.
Appreciate the video. Thinking of making a trip down to the Apple Store later today to look at it in person and your video has given me much food for thought regarding the choice of bands. They look amazing, but do seem noticeably harder to put on and take off (likely because you want them to be extra secure during extreme sporting sessions). Shame there is no orange trail loop option. 😕
I got mine today also…best purchase without even looking at it in store…it was a no brainer to buy it in terms of value for money…vs standard series 8….bam…no hesitation…its on my wrist….nice looking watch in my opinion..
Received mine several hours ago.  Updated from a Series 5, and I like the case and size.  My only observation is that the bezel around the screen seems unnecessarily thick.  The screen,  being protected by the thick frame of titanium, should extend all the way to the edge.  IMO.  That thick bezel just looks out of place.   Everything else I really like about the watch.  Setup was quick and super-easy.
I picked up the Ultra today and am returning my series 8 graphite. The series 8 graphite just looks exactly like my series 6 so at least with the Ultra I feel like I have a new watch.
I think i like the aesthetics of the original watch. If they would have kept the curved screen and had more than 1 color. I would probably be interested just because I like the idea of a bigger battery.
Great unboxing! Glad to know about the extension for the ocean band. I have the same problem of watch bands barely fitting.
Finally a manly looking AW. Preordered mine immediately.
The cleanest & clearest unboxing on YT ! Keep it up....
I love the look, especially with the navy blue band!
Great video Aaron! I pre-ordered my Apple Watch Ultra with the Midnight Ocean band last week from AT&T, but it won't be delivered until sometime between Nov 28th to Dec 5th. It will make an excellent Christmas gift for myself. This watch looks soooooo awesome!! I initially wasn't going to upgrade my watch since the 8 really didn't offer anything for a guy, but when I saw the Ultra at the presentation, it hooked me!! Can't wait for Christmas!!! I will probably get the Alpine Loop or maybe the Trail Loop, they both look cool.
I've been waiting for your video. Thanks for giving us a complete walkthrough! This to me, seems to be one of the best looking Apple Watches, and I don't do outdoors stuff 😀
Mine has been off the charger for 13 hours and did a 30 minute gps activity plus since it’s new been playing around with it a lot and it still has 80 percent charge.
Got the same band. I like it more than I thought I would. Yeah, the watch is bigger and a tad heavier but it really doesn’t feel that much different on my wrist than my series 5. Will put it through the paces here.
I picked one up for myself early this day and i love it!!
Looks much better on your hand and everyday is an adventure and I think you never know when a great adventure pops up... It's the first apple watch I like...
This is my exact watch being delivered Monday. I can’t wait!
Great unboxing and overview. It is definitely my style and I do love getting outdoors and off the grid!  In my Jeep though. I’ll be getting one as an upgrade from my Series 0 stainless Apple Watch!
I always love the way you peel so beautifully the new products you see from Apple thank you for that because not all the products I can buy but I could hear them from when you peel them off. That’s great thank you very
I think it's definitely worth it! Especially for the battery life is super amazing
When you think and compare in terms of the size seems more like the display is slightly taller as opposed to the one on the series 7,8 but the watch casing looks similar in my opinion just the raised screen surrounds. And made room to accommodate for the extra microphones and speakers.
finally someone who showed the braided loop with ultra kudos to you!
I’m definitely not the outdoor type.  My Series 7 does everything I need so I’ll stay with that for this year.
I just got mine and totally love it!!!
Great Setup Video. My Ultra should be delivered this afternoon.
Came here to see how to set up the loop on the midnight ocean band. Great explanation on everything. I actually really like the Nike sports band on my Serries 7 so thanks for letting me know that old bands will work on the Ultra.
Great video Aaron. The Ultra is amazing but not for my super small wrists. While I like big watches, I don't want to wear something chunky on my wrists. I  sold my series 6 and got the 8 in gold stainless steel. I love the sleek dainty design...  in 45mm...
I got my ultra yesterday. I love it.
I got mine and coming from the 45 mm it’s not that much bigger I love mine and I have small wrists what I love about it is the screen size the loudness of calls with my 45 mm I had problems hearing calls when using the speakers I love the brightness and the comfort when 😊wearing it I don’t know it’s on my wrist  I also love that I can use my old watch bands with it’s a WINNER!
Thanks for sharing. I look forward to your future experiences. Blessings on your day 👍🏻
wiating for my delivery today. Bought it for the titanium and battery power. I have a titanium 5
Love mine.my wrist does sometimes hit buttons on the side.i have a nice spigan case coming.id like to see a nice tactical case for it.
Picked one up for hiking and ocean swimming. Thanks Aaron.
Thank you for the elaborate review. I ordered the series 8, and changed my mind to get the ultra. Waiting impatiently for it to arrive. My niece bought the ultra, and she loves it. I was able to get a look at it from her, and I think I will also love it since we’ve had about the same taste in the Apple gadgets.
Great video! Can you please let us know what it’s like to sleep with for sleep tracking. Also the volume during normal voice calls? Battery life and screen size comparison to the 45mm, it looks almost identical. Thanks :)
So I finally got mine last week, charged it up took it off the charger at 0613 Friday morning. It’s now 20:38 Sunday night and i still have 29 percent battery. Lift to turn on is off, and constantly on is turned off. I either have to tap or press the button to turn it on. This is incredible battery life.
Low power mode that is coming later is different because it leaves more features on and it is designed for people who are doing long activities and still want to use the watch, but extend its battery life
Thanks for the unboxing and review of the ultra watch. The watch was much heavier and thicker than I thought and it’s probably a non-starter as far as I am concerned. 
My wife and I both thought that the ocean blue band looked very good on your wrist
With the watch being physically bigger, how does that impact the fit of the solo loop? I assume it’ll be bigger but hopefully it isn’t too different.
Excellent video, as always. I set up my new AW Ultra yesterday; I love it! It's the best apple watch ever. My question, when it says "Make this your new Apple Watch", does it erase the existing watch? I want to trade in my Series 7, and I wasn't sure if it was already erased when I set up my new Ultra, or if I need to erase the old watch separately. Thanks.
Great video aaron!! very informative!!
Love from The Gambia 🇬🇲
I got the series 4 watch when it came out and if i ever upgrade it will mostly likely be to the ultra
This is the first Apple Watch I've had since the first generation. I prefer traditional analog watches and I have a decent collection. 

Most of us won't use the Ultra to its full potential, but I didn't buy it believing I would. I view it as my Superbike. It's made to be leaned over far around a race track and to hit high speeds, but my bike will never hit the limits of its engineering. I bought the bike and this Ultra simply because I wanted to and could.

So far I'm enjoying the Ultra, but $800 seems a bit steep for this. If you compare the Ultra to any iPhone (12 and above) it seems like customers are overpaying for the tech that's in the watch and the included band.

The watch band selections at launch are disappointing. I believe there are nine total options. Mine is the ocean yellow (purchased in the Apple Store). It looks good in person, but I would've preferred more color and material options. As a watch collector I feel a $800 watch (smart or analog) should come with higher quality bands. I purchased a paracord watch band on Amazon, which is a nice outdoorsy alternative. I'm currently looking for a titanium band as well. 

I recommend potential buyers try to watch on in a store to determine if the size is right for them. I love big watches and this is a big boy. I'm not sure those with smaller wrists will like this size.
Good setup
Always so thorough and well done.
I like it! Looks good on your wrist but not sure about mine tho so will have to see in person. Thanks for the great video.
I got it with the Orange Alpine Loop. Love it so far. 🗣️ULTRAAAAAAA!!!
Thanks for sharing.  I had some concern how to transfer my account from my old watch to this new one.  Your video was exceptional.
Me again. Bought the ultra and am very, very happy I did. It’s fantastic. There’s a Series 8 on eBay now!
I love this smartwatch
Waiting for mine to be delivered. But excited for it.
Amazing review. I am waiting for mine, but I’m a bit afraid of the ocean band not fit on my wrist, after seen your video
this is gorgeous omg
Got mine! and I’m loving it 😍
Bonjour, Aaron. I liked the explanation and demonstration of the Oceanic watch band😊. Thanks!
The best Tech guy so far💯
I purchased one and I really like it thus far.  My son in law had already purchased one and loves it.  Thanks apple for another outstanding product.
Definitely getting this watch when I can!
I think the Apple Watch ultra looks absolutely amazing I can’t wait to Wearing it on my wrist
Amazing ill definitely get the new Apple watch Ultra 👍
I hope you'll update us in a few days regarding battery life.
I can’t wait to get one of these, I’m getting one this Christmas I think
I’m receiving mine today. Never had an Apple Watch ⌚️! Can’t wait.
For the long time, i really want to try how the feel using apple watch, but when i think it deeply, it seem unnecessary for me right now..
Is the setup the same if you are adding the Ultra as a second watch to your phone? And does the fitness app and health app connect both watches them?
If I didn’t buy an SE a few months ago I’d buy this one just for the larger display and battery life
Thank you for the video!
I think the Ultra looks cool and I love the extra battery but I’d feel like I’m not using it too its potential if I bought one. I definitely don’t do the things it’s made for. I wish the night mode would come to older watches, though. Great video as usual!
I have a 4 with sapphire glass and I’ve been waiting for something new that’s bigger and durable.  Is the process in it faster than series 4?
I left apple at series 5 for the Garmin Marq. Is the ultra good enough to go back to apple?? 
The battery life is still not good enough for me
Just tried it out at Best Buy..took several minutes looking the fit over and over.  Just too broad for every day use for me. Will stick with the Series 7, and wait for Apple to make an in-between offering...longer battery life but not as THICC.
When you set up cellar on the watch do you pay extra on your data plan for it? Or do you just have access to data on the watch
Can you talk about the international calling with the Apple Watches and how to set it up
Not too hyped over the watch to the point where I’m dying to have one. Same software as the watches we now have, only difference is the physical aspect. Chill.
Thanks for the video, Aaron.
Hi Aaron…Did you order the titanium Nomad band?…seems like a perfect match! Mine Nomad titanium band is awaiting my Ultra Tuesday!
Mines arriving around the 23rd of this month 😊😊
Can you test the satellite connection when it comes out.
I am interested in how accurate the measurement of s p o 2 is.I would like to continuously measure the values.
my lungs are damaged and I use an oxygen machine.
Great review as always.
We ordered the same watch same bands. Good taste.
Very helpful - thanks
Hi Aaron! I just received my Apple Watch Ultra and when I connect to my AirPods Pro, I can hear the left side but not the right side on the headphones, Is there a fix for this? Thx
I picked one up yesterday just for the monitoring features - sleep, heart rate, calorie burn, etc. I'm not disappointed so far (other than that I had to get an extra cellular plan and pay an activation fee, as well upgrade my non-functioning iPhone 6+, reactivation fee, etc. But that's all AT&T, not Apple). Even though I'm using it for myself, I think it will help me as a coach.
My husband bought the ultra today ❤ there are so many features
Great video pal , I’ve just ordered the ultra with the ocean band can I ask what size your wrists are plz I have decent size wrists also hoping the band fits . Cheers
Aaron, I really like the Ultra.  What would be your advice?  Should I get it now or should I wait a few months later?  Like after December?  If not Aaron someone else can write advice.  Thanks
Hey!  Does your Ultra have a slight discoloration in one corner near the Action button?  Or I see something that isn't there. Because in my Ultra has a color flaw at the top of the watch on the antenna line.
Do i have to use the Titanium charger that came with the Ultra? Or can i use my existing apple watch charging disk/pad?
Apple’s packaging is anyways amazing!
all of apple’s loop watch bands are designed to be worn with the buckle/securing mechanism facing away from you when worn. it’s most clear if you put the securing mechanism on its tightest setting. you can verify if you look at the way all of Apple’s watch bands are displayed on their website and at their store. The other easiest way to tell is the band size that is displayed on the inside of the band (49mm/45mm/44mm) always goes on the side closer to the crown.
I got mine this morning and I’m already in love with it😊
Nope. I’m sticking with my series 7.  The screen is far too big and too chunky for me. Although it seems like a great watch for those users who will take advantage of the higher end features
Thanks to your video I realized I had put the band on backwards, hah.  Anyway, great video as usual!
great review as always
What if you don’t have cellular plan to transfer from your previous Apple Watch 7 ?
The battery life is what had me sold
Do I have to delete my old Apple Watch before setting up the new one?
mine just came 😄
Can we have an Apple Watch with all these features but in the stainless steel design? I want the features but also the sophistication
Traded my Series 6 Watch for the Apple Watch Ultra.  I picked up the Ultra today.
I keep seeing ads where people are diving with the Ultra on top of their wetsuits and the screen is on and working. I also saw an ad where someone had the Ultra on top of their base layer for cold weather and the display is on and functioning. Did Apple eliminate wrist detection on the Ultra? If they did I’m in. My tattoos have made the always on display and passcode unusable due to wrist detection requirement for those features.
Still waiting for mine ugh/ now they say mid October not sure what I missed bc it def not available.. to regular people
I got my watch but could not do a single thing with it as as it was not charged up before it was sent to me. The watch was dead.  They included a charger but I dont have anything I can plug it into. It requires a USB-C adaptor and I dont have one. You would think that Amazon would have suggested pairing my purchase with a proper adapter, but they didn't
Love mine❤
I’m getting the Apple Watch ultra for my birthday in January I’m so excited 🎉⌚️
If you scroll over more to the right there are more options for the action button on setup. Aaron will the ultra be your daily watch now? With all those speakers can you play music without headphones from the watch? Hope you got apple care, if not ultra expensive to fix, no pun intended 🤑
Do I have to disconnect my old watch because nothing happens when I hold next to phone
Out of curiosity and possible sizing, what size is your woven band ? I have big wrists too and I would live it as a guide because I don’t have access to a printer, don’t worry I wouldn’t blame you if I get one and it’s to big or small lol
Great review
I work out every day a lot and I walk my dogs four times a day. I use my Apple Watch 6 a ton! I also use it for music, pretty much everything! Do you think this one would be good for what I do?
My series 6 is way too good to give up
If you want a sapphire crystal covering the display the alternative to this watch is the stainless steel 45mm which costs $750. Makes the Ultra seem cheap.
Another day of watching stuff that I cant afford
Good job man, keep up the smooth work!
I pre order and I have series 7 will both watches work on the same number sync.
Are the SE models same brightness nit as the ultras or series 8? Thanks!
I’m looking for a smartwatch, I am an iPhone user but I honestly kinda like the Samsung watches more, would you recommend me getting a Samsung one? 😅
Hi Zollotech. Do you think they will have a special on this watch during Black Friday? I wouldn't mind having one. Thanks for all of your awesome videos!
Great video thank you
Can’t wait to watch
I bought the large one, is it suitable for everyone?  I want to know before I open the box
I’m upgrading from my Apple Watch series 7 to the new Apple Watch ultra because both new safety features and the Siren
Can we get a matching titanium Iphone and titanium Airpods Pro. Thanks Apple.
My greetings to the team who invented the magnet charger .. Just impressive.
What size band did you order? Med or large?
I got one with the ocean band, but it is delayed until Oct.
Anyone else with the alpine loop go crazy when the latch hits the top of the Watch when putting it on like it just did one this video? Drives me nuts. Hasn’t scratched my watch but even being careful I’ve done it twice.
I have a Garmin 955 and unsure that this is an upgrade though I use an iPhone and AirPods.
I will sit this one out and switch with the next Ultra 2 since I’ve never had an Apple Watch before.
Do you buy bands separately? Does not come with watch Ultra?
Which size alpine strap do you have? I’m trying to figure out which size I need because my wrist measurement fits within Small and Medium
What about gps from phone when connected??  Some youtubers is saying that the watch 8,se2 and ultra always use gps from watch even when connected to phone. That is not good for the battery. I cant find in anywhere on apple web. Thanks
I'm not the Triathlon person but I do walk and roller skate! Are the watch faces from Series 6 compatible with the Ultra? Because I don't walk 24/7 nor roller skate 24/7! I had to stop running! Thank you!
I’m waiting on Ups now
Is it 40 meters depth rated or 40 AppleMeters depth rated with no moisture warranty?
I feel 2000 nits brightness they should have given to series 8 as well and keep ultra specifically for major outdoor purposes
You made easy for me and I understand every thing you said. Is usually not the case sometimes as an African . Thanks for for doing a good job here.
I have a doubt bro can I purchase Apple Watch Series 3 now pls advise because watchOS 9 was not been received for S3 and Apple stopped. It will support with ios 16 if yes how long they will allow support bro because watchOS and iOS should be the latest versions to use right? Pls, advise.
Nice review
Does the Apple Watch Ultra have an always on second hand? The other Apple Watches do not have that feature.
I like to see it with your Nomad titanium watch band please!
Interesting on how some say it’s heavier than they thought, while others say it’s lighter than they thought.
To turn the watch on u don’t need to hold ur finger to turn it on, u just press it fast and that pretty much it
I always like it when Zollotech makes awesome and fun videos like this :)
I am going to wait until Christmas time to upgrade. I like the titanium body and screen size as well as the battery. I want to start swimming with my Apple watch but I don’t trust the water resistance on my 7 for some reason. Also if the trade in value is as bad on the ultra as it is on the 7 then I won’t be upgrading.
I want one!
The loop on this Alpine loop band hits the top of the watch causing damage over time. You can see this at 7:51 of the video. Not a good design. I never used/returned mine after seeing the reviews about this issue.
This thing is a Beast and I’m sure it’s going to be awesome for anyone looking to get one. Unfortunately I’m not going to be recreating the opening mountain climbing scene from Mission Impossible 2 anytime soon because I stay home and stay grounded (not the outdoorsy type AT ALL). This would be Overkill for me, but it is a beautiful time piece.
Does the screen have PWM like the others?
hello,thanks! so increible ~ have a good day,
Great unboxing. Got mine here in the Uk today. Ordered with the green loop strap. Wasn’t sure about the green so also bought the yellow and white ocean strap. So glad I did. The Ocean strap looks absolutely fantastic. It’s big and robust looking just like the watch. What a fantastic quality product it is. Love Apple. Currently using it with the yellow strap.  Love how it automatically adjusts the brightness of the watch depending on your surrounding lighting. Keep up the great work👍🙏
Returned my 8 and got Ultra.
why does the orange color on the action button and the dial look like its not centered on the button?
Basically we cannot put bumper around the watch, can we?
The leather diving band is the most rugged and high quality.  Don't get any of the other 2.
Your commentary is so good I can close my eyes and follow you with my imagination lol
Man this thing is awesome 💴😘☺️♥️😍😍🥰😘
Great video. Thanks
You are the biggest and best customer to Apple.
Great video..
Watched 1 hour before mine showed up. OMG you saved my bacon on transfering the Cell service, etc. Bless you my Son!🤣👍
I’m thinking about it even though I sold my series 7 battery life was a pain don’t need ji be a in pulse buy lol
The Ultra is the perfect adventure tool.
Thank you Aaron, as always. And I particularly found it hilarious when you said "As always, thanks for *watching*"...pretty punny.
Nice presentation
That’s a nice looking watch.
I bought the series 8 45mm, its my first Apple Watch.
Was thinking about getting the ultra at first but €999 in Europe is a bit expensive.
Have to see how the series 8 holds up with scratches and everything, I wear it at work.
If it turns out to be a prone for scratches I might get the ultra next year.
Please use the band on your previous stainless steel watch from Nomid
Is anyone else with an iPhone 14 Pro having an issue where the dark parts of dark mode go lighter grey? It’s gotten really really annoying since 16.0.2.
Nice Video
Great watch and great video
It looks like a Watch 8 enclosed in a larger case. Watch 8 or 7 has smaller bezels around the screen
Hi Aaron,pls what is your wrist size? Thank you
Hi, I think it's too expensive. i have an apple watch se 2020 which i bought for 360$ which is right price for me. i wonder if apple watch se 2020 will get watch os 11?
Watch fits your wrist perfect
Hi Aaron this is Rugged type Watch which is tougher than normal watches . Very nice watch & video.
Careful when removin the watch of the titanium on the band hits the watch it will scratch it
great review,unfortunately i can not afford this watch it is to expensive for me.
Gotta go back to 16x9.
13:12 - I wonder if it actually senses depth based on water type. I’m not a scuba diver but I think the water pressure is different between salt water and freshwater. I’d be really interested to learn this if anyone knows please comment!
Hello! Avid fan here! a BIG question I want to ask you though. You might have mentioned this on your other vids but haven't stumbled onto it yet. Here goes! What do you do with ALL the apple products that you purchased over the years? I'm guessing that you have a boat load of Apple Products. Not to mention the boxes. I personally collect my devices, sell it if I could part ways with it. if it becomes obsolete, I just keep it with its box. Looking forward to your response. Thank you for having this channel!!!
Evening Aaron 😊
Good lord the things you do for us . That’s not cheap at all
I like it😊
Really amazing unboxing and setup. Followed along with you as I did mine. Appreciate how thorough you are. Earned a sub from me.
@zollotech looks great with stainless steel band from nomad
Arron you are the best
I will be getting one when I come back from my deployment next year. I have a series 7 but the ultra is 🔥🔥🔥 I’m gonna try it on in the Apple Store if I like it which I’m sure I will. I’ll scoop it up!
In the USA  it cost 800$. In my country cost 1040€. It’s very nice a little bit different from the other Apple Watch but it’s too expensive for a Watch that if the screen brakes down from a hit or the battery begins to die what would be the cost to fix it?For that money you could get a good regular Watch that you can repair it or buy 2 normal Apple Watches!!!
At the rate there selling u wont be able to see one on the wrist till after christmas. Already orders are pushed back to mod oct im seeing
Yessss
I’m am trying so hard for me to justify buying this watch because I love the size…I just can’t justify it tho..will stick with my 7…great video tho
Finally you agreed that it does have S8 chipset. Otherwise you were saying that Series 7 watch has S6 chip.
Etsy sells the bands for like $20.
Nice apple watch
Why does everyone say it’s not for everyone?? Anyone can buy it if they want it for whatever reason 😊
Reeeeeeally wish it came in Bkack 😢
Looks good on you
See Zolo #pushed like
I see other companies with make covers for it to change the looks to make it more dressy
Does anyone know how to get the modular face that he has?
With the siren its quiet is would be louder to scream
How long did it take to come from the time you ordered?  I ordered mine within a couple of days of intro and mine says mid-October. So like 6 weeks total. Mine was ordered with alpine band, so not the band delaying it
Might switch over to apple ecosystem just for this watch
I have got to try it on, I have a relatively small wrist so it might be too large?  Looks great though. I think I prefer the look over the 7 I have.
I bought one, and when I opened it, 😍! I got mine with the Alpine loop and it said I wouldn’t receive it till mid October. Got it couple days after ordering it. I think the Alpine loop is fine, but not my fave. I wish I got the Trail loop instead. I ordered mine via AT&T, and asked if I can exchange the band, but no go because I’d have to the whole watch. I’ll be buying the Trail loop and maybe the Nike band as well.
got mine today :D its not that much bigger
Not sure I’m getting one. I may trade in my 7.  Not sure yet. Definitely don’t need it lol. 
My 7 works fine for the gym and daily wear.
I’m getting
Where is water damage indicat
I like the green loop. =O)
It looks nice to me, but i dont think i will buy this year
I absolutely buying for my wife.
3:07 wow that was quite the struggle
Can any 1 help me what watch-face series 8
Looks nice by itself but perhaps too big for my 6.5 inch wrists.
I like my se 2
I do like the ultra, but 799 is too much money for a watch when a person already spends 1200 on a iPhone. I’ll most likely stick with the regular Iwatch 429 in gps is good enough
Thanks!
Be interesting to see if it’s actually sapphire or apples version of “sapphire”. Guess we have to wait for JerryRigEveryrhing
Looks like they’re not selling that great. Every Apple Store in my area has plenty of these in stock
Will apple warrant it this time against water damage? If not I’ll pass.
Now that my iPhone 13 Pro Max is fixed, I decided I’d upgrade from my series 4 to an Apple Watch ultra. It won’t be here for a month but I’m excited.
Now you are ready to go scuba diving.  Will that band work in a 44 or 45mm Series 6 or 7 watch?
Excellent unboxing, the Apple Watch ultra looks unique with it’s smooth rectangular sides as compared to previous round corners of the watch display. I picked up the Apple Watch series 8
I’m debating on the series 8 stainless steel in graphite or the ultra…I want to see them in person before I order mine though. Love the unboxing and detailed look!
I wasn’t a fan of the design when I saw the event but it looks a bit better irl. I’ll be sticking with my Series 7 for the foreseeable tho as that more than meets my needs
This watch is for the people that buy the stainless steel Apple Watch because if you think about it the stainless steel Apple Watch and the Apple Watch Ultra is only a little bit apart in $ also you dont have to be a outside person to get it i love the size that’s what got me to buy it + The longer battery life
i can gat apple but my apple watch 2 38mm can hold up fo about 43 hours
Hi, do you have to have cellular wireless to buy the ultra watch?
You think u have big hands. I have to have my watch bands custom made. The only apple watch bands that's fit my wrist are loop styles and the XL sports bands. So my color options are black and..... black. 😊
Not picking one up especially being I just bought the Apple Watch Nike 7 series with GPS and cellular! Getting that Wednesday so will pass on that watch!👍
You're the first yt reviewer that says it's heavier than expected 🤔
Arron you are the best tech reviewer on YouTube.
Hello, Zollo. It's the first time I'm going to buy an Apple watch, I'm a little undecided because the ultra seems excellent to me and it looks great. Great brightness, battery and a great screen, a very premium product. Although it is somewhat robust for my arm and has functions that I honestly will never use. I also want the Watch 8 in steel because it has more normal functions and both are more or less at the same price here in my country. I still haven't decided. As I put the money together, I'm going to think about it. Excellent video 👍🏽
Aaron, what is your wrist size? I'm looking to order the black rubber-style band, but not sure if it will fit my 8.50" wrist. And thanks for your videos, always the best.
For those of you have already bought the Ultra, did you pay for the Apple Care too. Currently on the fence about paying an extra 99.00 for it.
❤️🧡💛💚💙 DAAANNGGGG…….
All bands work on the Ultra, they will all click on. The only thing is that they might not fit flush. I use my 41 mm bands on my ultra and they hold the watch so you’ll be okay using them 

Btw I never realized how small his hands are😅
Something tells me that the next version of the Ultra will have a smaller bezel and this would be a bummer for whomever bought the first version.But other than that, it is an impressive piece of engineering.
Hi, Arron would you recommend Ultra Apple Watch?
I’m going to get the ultra.  However, I don’t like the fiddly bands. Luckily, I can keep using my current bands but I wish they hand given us the option to leave off the band.
I don’t think it has much to do with how active you are, people want a bigger display.
I’m a fool that loves battery life.
This doesn’t look any chunkier than my G-force from the 90s. 
Set one up for my Dad last night who does a tri-athlon activities spread throughout his day
In Amazing India, it cost1088.46 as of now.......
How many bands come with the ultra???
That’s massive. Also, the fact that it’s heavier than the stainless is such a bummer. I get it as to why it’s so big, all the tech and battery they had to stuffed in there but damn.
I made sure to watch your unboxing as I have eve bigger wrists than you. I want the Ultra just not sure about the price
Where did you get the usa band from?
Apple execs are just waking up every morning laughing about how much they're charging for watch bands.
Outstanding review. This helped me settle into my own new Ultra. It’s a beautiful piece of technology and I think I’m going to appreciate it for quite some time. Right up until Elon introduces Neuralink into it and then I’m out!  :)
You said the Apple Watch Ultra is not for everyone. Well, definitely it’s not for you as you are not an athlete, hiker or diver mate ;)
You can charge your Apple Watch ultra, using the thunderbolt port on the iPad M1…😮😊😊
Is anyone else’s Ultra have a crown that’s a bit mushy feeling?
There’s color options. Mines blue
Just got mine.  It feels a little heavy, coming from a Series 7.  I got the Ocean band in silicone because I hike and don’t want to ruin a band with sweat.  It is now fully charged and I’m anxious to see how long the battery lasts. This is my favorite time of the year, I got the iPone 14 Pro Max last week and the bonus this year was the AirPod Pro 2 today too.  Truly Christmas in September. I watched all of your videos and appreciate your reviews.
I've seen a few vids this week where the reviewers have had really thin wrists. I wear the Size 4 braided solo loop, so my wrists would be way thinner than Aaron wrist. I definitely think the Ultra looks more at home on broader wrists like Aaron has, apposed to thin wrists. When I see videos like the one I saw yesterday including iJustine, it confirms my thoughts that the Ultra on me would look hideous, and confirms that I made the right choice going with the S8 45mm stainless steel. The Ultra will certainly be a good watch for a lot of people, but for people with slim wrists I have got to say it looks hideous. 

One thing I'm not too keen on is the more rugged look that the Ultra has. I find the normal Apple Watch especially in stainless steel looks a far classier and smarter looking watch, that would be more of a watch that could be worn everyday, that would look equally as good when worn with smart or casual clothes. Whereas the Ultra looks more like it would be better suited to be worn with sports clothes/less smarter clothes and I imagine with the amount it stands off of the wrist, would make it difficult to wear under a dress shirt with buttoned cuffs. Too be fair to the Ultra, every day wear is not I think what it was designed for. Great video as per normal Aaron.
I keep watching videoes about the Ultra knowing I’m never going to afford it. Yay me.
I’m still obsessed with this watch.. but it’s so expensive I can’t afford! I could buy iPhone 15 instead..😋
In Australia the Apple Watch ultra will cost $1300 ⌚️
Whenever my Ultra wakes up, there is a small blue bar that appears briefly and then disappears. I wonder what it means…..
The Apple Watch that finally got me to buy one… just to not use the features😂
Portland, JAMAICA in the Building!!!!!!!!!
Do you do a voice over or do you talk as you are filming?
Looks like they're selling like hotcakes.  Just checked Apple's site and all I looked at are showing an end of October/beginning of November ship date...
fun fact u can use that action button to summon your tesla if you have one!
There's no reason to get the 8; Unless you have small wrists. This is everything that its not. Well worth the entry. Light, big, flat screen, battery life, action button, and loud. Loving mine.
Great unboxing and overview. It is definitely my style and I do love getting outdoors and off the grid!  In my Jeep though. I’ll be getting one as an upgrade from my Series 0 stainless Apple Watch!
I'm just confused why you said is not for everyone?😊😊 because it cost $800😁😁
Hi Aaron do you think that they will add the SOS satellite to the Apple Watch Ultra would you comment and on your YouTube yours truly Clarke Moore
Great unboxing. I like the way you do your videos;
 Quick question: Apple didn’t change the SOC this year. Should I wait another year and buy 2nd gen ultra or buy this one now? 
FYI I have wanted to buy an Apple Watch since series four, and I didn't go for it because of poor battery life.
Nice video.❤ can you give Apple Watch ultra?🙈
$99 for a nylon watch band is ridiculous.
Wondering how this one works with tattoos?🤔
Hi
Meanwhile, still waiting for 16.1 on my phone.
$99 for a watch band that probably cost $6 to manufacture
How can this be more expensive than a full blown iPad Air???? 😂
one of the best thing about dude is that he never credit for himself when he achives something he always respect us the audience and his team and he is polite in all his videos....we congrats ourselves on his achievements more to come.💓🇮🇳
Ping pong table😂😂😂
Should be made out of gold for $800 price tag LOL
can i wear it in the sauna or steam room?
This is definitely for everyone. Not sure why theses reviews are saying this. Why wouldn’t this be for anyone, this by far is not the biggest watch ever made! Any one can and should get it.
3:28 I hate when I scratch my watch screen on my diamonds!
99 bucks for leather band?, I got my stainless steel for less and it feels like 99 bucks
you could buy a nice secondhand apple watch for $99
My favorite watch but with the economic problems in Sri Lanka it is a dream 😓
Damn
Problem is that 50% of all Apple device features don't work outside the US.
What I find very disappointing is the fact that the actual watch face size is only •5 of a millimetre bigger than the series 7! Series 7 = 1.90 inches compared to = 1.92 inches! On the ultra!
Yeah thats not for me thats a whole another iphone . Ill be keeping my series 6 😊😊😅
Considering your age and body, you don't need an Apple Watch. All you need is a good trainer and strict diet 😂 Forget this Apple toy and focus on your health.
I liked your nice videos
Only get cellular on ipad. Always have iPhone no need for cellular on watch
👍🏻
Happy with Nike Apple Watch ⌚️ Series 7 - Series 8 isn’t that of a great update (can wait another year or 2 easily) and Apple Watch Ultra is an overkill for me for the activities I do! May be their 2nd or 3rd iteration of Ultra Series may come more closer to Garmin watch’s 😅 with Solar charging, many days or months battery life and a lot more activities.. (still an overkill for me 😅)
👍💯
Why the orange buttons? Ruins it.
I don’t dive, go out into the wilderness, or do extreme sports but I would love to have one… two reason for not buying one is obviously the price. 
The other is I’d destroy it if I used it at my work…
I use white spirits and solvents, and I use paints too all which would destroy this watch. Although the watch is capable of going down to great depths and shrugs off water, paints and solvents are a different proposition… the paint would get into those ports and close them off. 
Yes, I could wear it when not at work but that would remove the watch’s health features for a good chunk of my day meaning I’d not get the benefits of the health monitoring which is o why I’d want to Alan an Apple Watch. 
It’s not just a problem with this model as all the others are just as prone to the above… just not as expensive as the ultra. 
I’m surprised Apple hadn’t added an in between model that would sit in the space the series 8 and Ultra are in… a G-Shock model for those who work in industry.
My dad went to India and he bought a Apple Watch ultra for me in India and he brought a red Bluetooth 5.1 earbuds from India
That's a very HIGH profit product for Apple right there... $99 for a watch band 😬
Hello everyone
I'm probably up for idiot-of-the-week award here, but after buying a Series 8 last week and being very happy with it, I watched your video on the Ultra and was immediately not so happy. Yes, I bought an Ultra, like I should have done to begin with.
I don’t plan on bumping into many diamonds in the future…
100 for a watch band? Nah, I rather buy some at Amazon for way less. They’re out of their mind now.
Interesting, I placed my order on the 17th with the orange alpine loop and my expected delivery date for it will be around October 25-28 wth is up that that? 🤣🤨

Same thing with the iPhone pm. I ordered the 512gb in  purple and that will be arriving between October 21-24th 😬 

But at least the Air Pods Pro I bought were updated and will be delivered next week on the 26-29th instead of the October 21-24th date they were giving me before.

Hopefully they update my phone and watch too🤞🏻


1st time Apple user. I've always had android phones. I currently have the Samsung Galaxy S10 Plus ceramic black edition which still works great.
99 Dollars for the loop😂
😊👍
I am disappointed to see that the iPhone that is shown on the setup screen of the Apple Watch Ultra is still the iPhone 13 / iPhone 14 design, and not the iPhone 14 Pro / Pro Max design
Feel like it’s such an overkill for most people out there. Not to mention it’s gonna look like a mini iPad on most peoples wrists.
Seems everyone is buying Apple watch ultra apart from me irrespective of how it's gonna look on the wrist 🤨
In my opinion Apple has lost its sleek, elite, stylish design with the Ultra.  I will wait for them to bring out a sleek, stylishly designed Apple Ultra. What do you think?
I cannot understand why you wear your watch right behind your palm it must be painful and it limits your natural waist joint movement. Watch should be worn behind the wrist bone
hey! z. don,t trust your $800.00 apple watch ultra without a screen protection cover.
Your wrist must be gargantuan, this doesn't look that bad on you.
👀
How am I the 4th view but the 9th comment 😂😂
I’ll hate on it because I can’t afford it
Did I tell you about the time I saved $750 and got the Amazon generic of this……..??   🤣 👍
Ahhhh… yet another thing I can’t afford…
lol. I knew it would look normal on your wrist.
I don't know why people feel the need to pull the tabs slow. Just fucking pull them off and be done with it.
The main problem with apple is the false advertising of sapphire crystals. Go watch jerryrigeverything. It’s a nice unbiased opinion that proves it’s never been sapphire and it’s just buzz filled claims about their products.
i ont understand why people would speed 800 pkus fir an fucken watch, Yes it looks nice but not wroth it
Apple watch séries design is so outdated...
$799 for a watch? Not for everyone 🤣
Nice, but too fucking expensive for me! Not everyone has that type of money too spent.
What's the fascination with the packaging? describing the texture of the box??? what am I missing here? is it some people's fetish or something?
not first <3
All that unnecessary packaging for a watch but 🍎 can’t manage a useful charger in an iPhone box that is much more useful! Thieves
Somone I know bought a fake one for 300$
I think apple sold me a fake one
Hard pass that color is terrible. They dropped the ball not offering a dark case.
Apple use cheap sapphire glass, which easily scratch
your video is all messed up, colors on different things in the video appear strange and misaligned, you need to re-upload your video or something
Ya know for all those  whiny tree hugging liberals at Apple who whine about the environment they sure do know how to waste paper and boxing. No matter if it’s recycled or not
If you are an athlete if won't buy this overpriced garbage mate. You will get a proper watch for athletes, like a Garmin. End of story 💪🏻
This is the fake one
Another overpriced Apple product
What are your thoughts on the Apple Watch Ultra, would you consider getting one? 🤔
I just picked up the new SE. haven’t used an Apple Watch since series 1. Flat display of the ultra is a huge appeal for me. Really like the industrial take
I’ve been using the Ultra with the orange Alpine loop. Came with the large, which is a bit big. Ordered a medium Alpine loop that fits much better. Now i have two medium Alpine loops so i can go back and forth. It gets easier putting on and removing the Alpine loop.
The size worries me but it is beautiful. Thanks for the review.
Love the new battery live on the Ultra!
Favorite feature of the ultra is the extended battery life.
Hello, arrived today ultra pure to me but I think there are bugs because often the microphone to send voice or dictate text does not work. Did it happen to you?
Thank you
I love the new workout button!
Underrated video! Thank you for mentioning actual wrist size!
What I like about the apple watch Ultra is the battery and the big screen, I have apple watch series 7 as of now no planning to upgrade. But I want to commend your reviews in over all very detailed, honest and good quality video. Now I have a new tech vlogger fav! Thanks Dion! From PH 🇵🇭😊
I’ve also had problems with the setup. I had to do it three times before it worked. But it’s worth the wait 😂
My favorite feature in the new Apple Watch is the new button that allows you access to workouts and other apps or even scuba dive
Why does the watch seem upside down or backwards in this video on your right arm? The screen seems right side up, but the watch is being worn backwards to how everyone else wears it. Is that an option you changed in settings?
Camera and iOS
Hope to see it in my hand
I got mine and set up the cellular but when i call my new number it doesn’t ring. Did I set it up wrong?
It’s very nice and fun to use
that looks good on you. what was the Alpine Loop size you reviewed and your wrist size.
Love the flat screen and the design but it’s too large for my wrist and the price is way too much for me. Still gonna keep my SE until they release a new SE again with the always-on.😅
I love the color orange! I will be saving up to be able to purchase this watch. So cool.
My Dream Watch! It’s just amazing ❤
I generally don't buy the first generation, wait for the second generation or later， and the price is high. the battery life i like but it's worse to buy? or just buy 8?
Hey Dion, I was waiting for your ultra unboxing video. I didn’t know you can only pair 5 watches per iPhone. Thanks for that. Also nice to hear the ultra bands are compatible with the 45mm AppleWatch 7.
It looks great on your wrist!
Congratulations it's awesome this is the first apple watch I like.... I think its fun for all people as adventure is only a step away n everyday life can be quite adventurous.... 😊👍
Yes I bought one because I like longer battery life we’re it everyday and charge it every 3 days
my option would be the ultra bc if i got the s8 or se it would get smaller
I bought the large one, is it suitable for everyone?  I want to know before I open the box
Great video! Would be perfect to use it in the gym! No worries about protecting case lol.
It look's like a luxury watch. I loved the color very eye catchy. Also I think red color strap is good to eye too. Great video content sir dion. All things are Very much detailed salute sir 👍
If U want to transfer from old to new Apple Watch, should U unpair the old Apple Watch first? Or can U subsequently redownload apps / content?? Thanks  🙏
Yeah it worth it! Especially for everyday using. And that case gives vibe of 14 pro max))) Cause each Apple Watch to 8 vol, are felt more like iPhone X, with rounded edges.
stuunning -brother!👽
Like the new bands
Hi, I want to buy the ultra Apple Watch ⌚️ but I’m afraid because I don’t know how’s is going to look on my arm. Thank you 🙏
I have the same size wrist as you. I ordered my Ultra with the S/M size trail loop band. I also want to get an alpine loop band later and will it in a size small.
I have the same wrist size as you (15 cm to be exact) and I'm still on the fence about this watch, although I owned Panerai watch in the past (and it was huge). Perhaps I'll stop by the Apple store and try it on next month. Did you have a chance to try the ocean band? I am curious as to how it fits on your/my wrist as it only comes in one size, I really like the look of it
Awesome color, same as papaya orange (the mclaren orange).
@Sabbirocks
This watch is a masterpiece and will be suitable for high performance based activities like hiking, surfing,scuba diving etc. I love the ruggedness,flat display,extreme level health trackers.But in day to day use, typical users can't hit it's full potential.It's kinda overkill for most of the users.
I’m getting the Apple Watch ultra for my birthday in January I’m so excited ⌚️🎉
Dion is the next BIG thing, great video ,appreciate it.
If you are in this Channel you are in luck.❤❤❤
Size bit big, but good features
I ordered it and it will be my very first Apple watch. I haven’t used a wrist watch in years 😳
Been rocking it for a day and so nice to get a larger one and little new design, works solid. Apple could have made it 52-55mm and i would be even more happy, but  even 49 is a step up over the 44/45 soap formed watches i have been rocking for years. :)
The Ultra is the perfect adventure tool.
Ultra looks huge and heavy than your 41mm watch8. Its better have a 41mm size for more formal fit for office or like formal events. 😊
What size is your orange apple alpine loop? Size s or m?
Really nice review! I bought it because, as an 82 y/o I'm hard of hearing , have fallen at times and enjoy the brighter screen.
I buy dt8 ultra ,, save money ,, same design
whats your wrist size and What size belt did you buy?
Yeah it’s too expensive for me haha. I will get the Series 8 though and I think that one is also really good. Still want my first Apple Watch cause it looks so handy to have.
I’m looking into getting an Apple Watch but I don’t think the ultra is for me, I can see why someone would want it though:)
Man this watch is everything I want! Except it’s too expensive your last video of the series 8 is what I’m leaning towards.
Wow for real nEw iphone 14 for giveaway 🎉🎉
Interesting that your Dutch living in the U.K. but with an American accent. Great Vlogs always very interesting, still can’t make my mind up as to which Watch to buy.
Did you order small band size?
@bigcbee
Looks amazing! Maybe they’ll make a slightly smaller version soon.
I’m upgrading from my Apple Watch series 7 45 mm Aluminium to the Apple Watch ultra ⌚️ Because of all the new safety features including the new siren
what's the band size?
just   got   da   Ultra  🙋🏻‍♂️
The thickness isn’t very appealing to me,  as my daily watch.
I’m going from never owning an Apple Watch to owning an Apple Watch ultra😅
In Australia the Apple Watch ultra cost $1300
I want the apple watch ultra please 🙏
👍
I personally am not for the Ultra. First of all, 49mm is way too big for my wrist. Second, I don’t like that it only comes in the one colour, as I don’t care for that colour much. But, I can’t deny there is definitely a crowd for it. For me, I’ll just stick with my series 7 this time around. 
Great review as always! Appreciated Dion!
@oscarvision13
My favorite part of the new AppleWatch Pro is definitely the new battery and the screen size.
Hi I want to participate in iphone 14 giveaway.
👍🏼
Jesus Christ love you
First!!❤
darrenkris1386 ultra is ok but i prefer the garmin and amzfit watches for outdoors cause the prices are better than the ultra
❤❤🎉
Overpriced, thats Apple philosophy, how to pull money out of pockets.

If I want to own all Apple set at once (iPhone, AirPods, Watch, Mac, ipad) then will sell my kidney for it 😂.

What next Apple?! iJeans? iSneakers?

Apple became a lifestyle company rather than tech co.
@sotos_anagno
What I like the most is that it is rugged and more durable than the other models, so it can be used in different situations and harsh environments without worrying about it getting wrecked.
Can I get an iPhone pls
@maurogabriel
un buen reloj con el boton para personalizar un atajo es una bueno punto a favor
@diegoignaciopb
What I'd like the most from the new Apple Watch Ultra is mainly the longer battery life but also the larger screen and the new actions button.
@enelraguri   Yes! Why not, If I am a tech creator😃...Apple watch Ultra is built for extreme sports, that's the toughest part of it, my favourite feature. 🙂
@omarcianox 

Definitely my favorite feature is the battery life, I’ve had good battery life with my series 7 but this Ultra had double battery. And also the band is gorgeous
@_.aryaa.___
Best part of this ultra is the orange button which helps in switching things easily... thank you
@mjoshss 

The design is definitely made for people with active lifestyles. I love how aggressive and bulky it looks
👍🇬🇧🎖
@rolandleodr | I think best feature on the Apple Watch Ultra is extensive battery life, the flat and larger display, and lastly the emergency siren.
@vitchlumsky
Best feature is definitely the extended battery life
@__vinothraja__

 For me , the features  ECG and blood oxygen or either AOD never bothers me. Literally the iwatch SE2 got my attention because of the new s8 chipset and the reasonable price tags when compared to SE1 . Even i liked the feature of low powermode , bluetooth5.3 , crash detection and sos !
Thanks for the best review about SE2 ! 
Keep going mate❤!
@piotr_kucharczyk

Ultra will finally be an Apple Watch with a decent battery. I just wonder what it would look like on my wrist. I guess with a great battery comes a big watch!
@imsaurabhjoshi Apple Watch ultra i all together in different league.. as an athlete i need long battery backup this watch is definitely in my wishlist.. & rugged big design looks damn good 😃
@juanmanito - Definitely my favorites are the new design and the battery.
@laikistospiti 
Great video keep the good work.
@aricardoos
Best feature is battery life 😊
@ebbzz88
Very very smooth review sir dion ❤ ultra 🔥
@hanifhaiqall
My favourite Apple Watch Ultra feature is the battery life that can last 36 hours
@elemento_06

@dionschuddeboom I frankly feel the watch ultra is for a very niche segment of users. Most users would only actually need the SE2, or the series 8 in case of a more mainstream Apple product. The ultra's more rugged build and shere size is a plus in my books though.
sou_0199
Great video 
Looking amazing 😍 I really like it ,,
@darkrex_13
My favourite feature of the Apple Watch Ultra has to be the extra ruggedness and it really amazing battery life
@nwatadavid

Just live everything big about it
@joaosouzaesilva48 :: Soooooo, I'm currently using an Apple Watch series 7, and couldn't be happier! So no, i can't see me using the new ultra. Asides from the price, looks like a bit overkill for what i use it for. That being, the fitness capabilities of the device! Regards from Portugal! 🇵🇹
@kennethxperea
Iwatch ultra was definitely the most amazing iwatch feature. it has everything feature you want in your daily life style and also for adventure. This video is really cool.
@rheaacorros

This is so much better than any other apple watch especially if you travel and do adventures! This apple watch can save your life and help you reach your goal! It also looks so good!
hey Dion. somebody is using your name to pull a prize scam. I have been asked to hit you up on telegram to claim a prize
@ronan.obeirne 
Love the long lasting battery life of the new Apple Watch ultra
imcgpranav    The battery life alone would be enough for me atleast to consider upgrading to the ultra 
And I hope I win the giveaway
@abdulazeezmahmud81
Great watch too bad I don’t have one
I like the fact that its design is different from the others, but it may  not suit people with small wrist.
@fosudixon
Personally I am not going to buy it. It will just flop on my wrist and hold me down lol.
@spinzoofficial
@sheereneibrahim21

Apple watch ultra is massive in terms of price and features. It doesnt have a smaller size which is a downside.
The raised lip around the screen brings some peace of mind

@logicoverluck55
The battery life and rugged design are my fav features. @lolokawaii85
@mark_hrndz
extensive battery life
Jayden56pri
I love the new screen size and the brightness, the unboxing experience definitely shook me
My favourite features are design, build quality and  great battery of ultra watch. @sreeram4818
@bhaskarkapoor
The Apple Watch Ultra is a big change compared to the other models, very resistant to proof of everything but in the day to day in the city, in daily activities I feel that it is too watch for the everyday, I stay with my series 7, great review. 🤓🫡⌚️✨
@lauri_kainulainen

Wow this watch is amazing!
@_janeeek.oficjalnie
In my opinion the best feature is action mode, because i love recording video, and this feature is very helpful
@josipcrep
The always on display and the new safety features @anandhu__17
My favorite feature from the Apple Watch Ultra is having a larger battery that can last up to 36 hours. @123rmcf123
Bigger screen @sathu_shanan
@joaosouzaesilva48
mohammad_abdulla_erol
I like construction of the watch , battery and bands, but i think only  few people will have a real benefit, the best value is apple watch se 2 @nenadrafajlovski
_.x.avra.x._ 
The durability and specific computers for different activities are the best features❤
@joaosouzaesilva48
@joaosouzaesilva48
@joaosouzaesilva48
@joaosouzaesilva48
@joaosouzaesilva48
@joaosouzaesilva48
@joaosouzaesilva48
@joaosouzaesilva48
@joaosouzaesilva48
1.Title: Apple Extends Reach With $800 Watch, as New iPhone Inches Along
Description: The Apple Watch Ultra is aimed at endurance athletes, a market dominated by Garmin. Apple also introduced updated AirPods.
Content: Over the past decade, September has been the month when Apple revealed its latest iPhone. The company served up swaggering advances in technology, year after year, that propelled its business as Apple became the world’s most valuable company.

2.Title: We’re Impressed With Everything From Apple’s Fall 2022 iPhone Event—With One Exception
Description: Apple announced four new iPhones, three new Apple Watches, and new AirPods today, and though we won’t know what we’ll end up selecting as a Wirecutter pick until we get our hands on all of them, each announcement left us (mostly) impressed. With n...
Content: Apple announced four new iPhones, three new Apple Watches, and new AirPods today, and though we won’t know what we’ll end up selecting as a Wirecutter pick until we get our hands on all of them, each announcement left us (mostly) impressed. With new features and surprisingly aggressive pricing that puts the new iPhone 14...
