Hi all! Hope you enjoy this look at what's inside the boxes. As noted, these are final production units from a hardware standpoint, however, they are currently running beta firmware.  Once I get final firmware, I'll aim for about 1-2 weeks later for an in-depth review, likely putting it mid-March. Plenty of goodness to come!
Love your videos!! They're so informative! So excited for the Fenix 5s!
Great video, totally loved it. Great work. Many thanks
Thanks DCR! Looking forward to hearing about the features and benifits of the 5X for triathletes in comparison to the 920xt. (time to upgrade from the 910)
This will be my first-ever Fenix. Already pre-ordered (sapphire 5) and CAN'T WAIT!!!!!
iv been waiting for this video! very pleased to see it even though i wont be buying one for quite a while because i already have the fenix 3. they look fantastic
that B roll , great vid.
Thanx DC Rainmaker for the unboxing .........Fenix 5x saphire
Thanks for the video. Would love to see a detailed comparison between the 5X and 3HR. In one of the images, the 5X looks slightly thinner than the 3HR.
Thanks for letting me know the size of the 5S is about the same as the 735XT. That is a much more manageable size for a person with smaller wrists.
getting real better in the cinematography! nice :-)
DCR, question about navigation: can you simply enter an address via the watch or phone and navigate there turn by turn? or is the navigation function poi and random route based only?
ho avuto (e rivenduto dopo pochi mesi) il fenix 3 hr, ed ora voglio il fenix 5!!! 😍 
Nice unboxing...Subscribed.
Hi Ray, love your vids en reviews. Question, does this Fenix lack the same issue as the Fenix 3 when it comes to alti and barometer issues? Thanks!
I think the sapphire is worth the money. I owned a LOT of mineral glass watches and they all had scratches after a few months. I now own a Saphire glass watch since 8 years and it is covered in scratches *on the case* but none on the glass. So for a sport watch. That will get in contact with gear, nature, etc. I think I will definitely go for the sapphire and the X is a no-brainer from there.
Very thorough. Thank you!!
At first, chose the 5 over 5X due to batt stamina alone. But wait, my ultras would be >24hrs and have to bring charger/powerbank anyways and prices for both 5/5X sapphire/metal are the SAME...finally settled on 5X and I can now sleep better! GREAT and HELPFUL video, thanks!
Hi! Thanks for a video. At 11:08 U said 5X has different optical hr sensor, right? what is different?
I preordered my 5X the day they opened for it... DYING to get it.. come on!
Great video! But why didn't you put them on your wrist!!?? I want to see what they look like on the wrist before I order one! I liked your comparisons, but I still have no idea what they would look like on my wrist and am still conflicted between the 5 and 5s
Video of the watches on your wrist would be great. The photos on your website are a help. 
The fenix 5x looks the same size as the fenix 3 HR as far as I can tell.
would have loved to see them on the wrist when you were doing the size comparison, I am still torn between the 5 or the 5x and size is my biggest deciding factor.
I'm really interested in the 24/7 HR feature as an activity monitor...
Great video, thanks boss
Great video Ray, still love my Fenix 3 so may wait until the Fenix 6 comes out in a year/two but if I didn't have it I'd get the 5x I think.
It was very useful n intresting, thank u
+Ray, can you do a video installing the quickswap bands from the F5 onto the F3? Wonder how does that work, and does it work well? I suspect on the F3, we just install the original pins without the original strap, and put on the new quickswap bands?
Thanks for the ongoing coverage! Did Garmin explain why they made the seemingly stupid decision not to use some of the 12GB storage for music playlists?
DC please review the watch on a GYM/Workout environment, I know it's the best running watch but I want to know it's workout performance because Fenix 3 was weak and basically like a Fitbit...
Jesus Ray, are you using the tiny mic hole on some action cam?
Does the 5x come with BOTH metal and rubber bands?  Most of the pre-order websites show them as SEPARATE items.

Thanks
Hi Ray. Is there any difference in size/weight between the 5S Saphire and the regular 5S?  Thanks.
good companion: I wanted to know your opinion.
I am taking pleasure to run and when I do a little better, now it is very cold in my land, I want to go out with the bike ... I have been looking at your blog to see if I decide on the 5 sapphire fenix but I get many doubts. ..
1. Would you wait for another model?
2. better the 5x .. it seems very big and I would use it for day to day but I would be guided by your opinion.

thanks for so much information
What do u think about the new sunnto Spartan Sport Wrist HR Baro, would you say is a good watch for running?
Hi. Could you install "Tree Benchmark" from the Connect IQ store and see what score this watch gets and post back? Thanks.
Did i see it correct that only the 5X has a red ring around the upper right button? Does it have a extra function (like on the cronos) than on the 5 and 5S ?
Thanks great video!
Great video...thx!
Hi Ray,

I'm thinking about buying the 5s because I've a small wrist: how about HR precision of Fenix 5s vs Fenix 5 as a smaller watch will fit better on the wrist?

thanks.
great video ...cool
Can you explain the difference between the 5s and the 5s sapphire? i know that it pertains to WiFi but i am unsure what that means exactly. I currently have a forerunner 230 and am looking for a big upgrade. The 230 syncs to my phone when bluetooth is connected.
Thanks for the videos on the Fenix 5 series! Can you confirm a feature, or lack thereof, for me? The 5X has maps, and I believe the Round-trip Run and Round-trip Ride are tied to that. So I'm assuming the 5 and the 5S don't have that feature. Is that correct? I think it's a feature that could be included by using the Garmin Connect app on your phone, have it generate a route, and then send turn-by-turn directions to the watch. I know not everyone carries their phone with them when they run or ride, but some do. I do. It's like they built the watches, specifically the 5X, to be completely independent (understandable), but then don't even bother to consider all the additional features they COULD have had (on the 5 and 5S) were the phone present.
The inner screen of the watches look like they are same in the diameter. Does resolution or inside diameter change for each? Or only the outside antenna gets bigger and bigger?
would you suggest Sunnto spartan sport wrist HR or Garmin fenix 5 for daily running with gps navigation? + DC Rainmaker
Hi, can you explain in depth once and for all – because I keep seeing different data in different places that compere the two – what exactly are the differences between Fenix 5 sapphire and Fenix 5S sapphire? I'm, off course, not asking about size and weight - but things like Wi-Fi that some say that there are some Fenix 5 sapphire without. I already know about the battery life, and pixels. Are there any more differences? Thanx so much.
You mentioned in the video that the fenix 5x watch band can be used with the fenix 3hr? Really interested about this.. can you make a short video on showing this compatibility? I just bought a fenix 3 so I wont be upgrading anytime soon but I'm really interested in switching bands instantly to use between office and sports..
does the fenix 5x come with both the metal band and silicone band? and does the fenix 5x have MGRS
Not much enthusiasm in an inboxing video of a highly-anticipated device. Hopefully Garmin has solved the altimeter issues specific to the wrist-based HR sensor. A few bummer moments in this video:

05:00
10:12
12:40

I really want to be more excited to buy a Fenix 5x, but the combination of high price, inconvenient charging cord, lack of available non-HR version (I just don't want buggy altimeter/GPS or other sensor stuff), and lack of non-Sapphire 5x version WITH WiFi kind of turns me off a bit. Plus, my Fenix 3 is still going strong with no issues, so...

I'll wait for a few months to see how the Fenix 5x is reviewed by folks before shelling out $800...
Nice roadbike t-shirt. What is it?
Thank you. this video that what I look for "compare"
Can I use the mapping function of the 5X here in the Philippines if I buy one from US or Canada?
After trying the Fenix 5 and the Fenix 5x on your wrist, which one do you like more? Was the bulk from the 5x really noticeable compared to the regular 5? I like the size of the 5 but I also really really like the idea of having maps on the 5x. I will most likely be wearing this all the time so comfort counts. Any input would be nice. Thanks!
Thanks!!! Always the first!
Can you use the standard NATO strap (nylon strap) that is commonly available?  That is, does the Fenix 5 have a strap "bar" at each side that the NATO style strap could slip behind?
any difference between the Asia, US and UK 5x version. pls advice, thanks
is the fenix 5 have capable of inputing MGRS coordinates like the tactic bravo?
How would you compare a Fenix 5 (not x or S) vs a Fenix Chronos (leather). I just love the all metal design of the Chronos.
When will they start shipping?
What do you do with the watches you don’t use?
On your site it has the Sapphire 5 in both silicon and metal band coming with a different band. Yet on the 5x only the metal comes with the yellow band. Is that still the case? Seems only the 5x in black band doesn't come with the second band.
several complaints about audio so I thought I'd suggest trying out the rode smartlav+. I am not educated in stuff like that but I saw a video with it and it sounded pretty good.
Hi. Is it possible attach not original band to f5? e.g. is f3 band compatible to f5? Thanks
One question hope u help me answer it .. on your opinion garmin 5s or  garmin instinct
Lo que no aclaraste es que el vidrio del la version X es mas grande que la del 5 normal, entonces la pantalla parece mas chica en el X.
It's unclear to me if the 5S will work well with the HRM tri bundle, because the Garmin site doesn't allow you to select the tri bundle with the 5S model. Any thoughts?
Are they out now?
how are ppl saying they have these? it shows me not available until 4-6 weeks... on garmin website... this would be my first fennix or Garmin product... really  hesitating on waiting for it to come out or just buying the fenix 3 HR
Is there any way of pausing or disabling the steps?
What is the battery life of the 5x compared to the regular 5? I want the 5x but I don't want it if the battery life is horrible compared to the regular 5
Garmin, until u put music storage on the Fenix or the Forerunner, I will be waiting impatiently on the sidelines with my old (but reliable) 920 xt.
Did you mix up the battery life titles in your video? 7:56?
hello my friend!when it comes out(Europe)?
Side by side it looks like the F5S is smaller than 735XT and F5 is slightly larger than 735XT. That's interesting.
❤ Garmin ❤
I hope you stay like this, with all the different reviews, tests, and insights. Don't get like Richnose (Rizknows), becoming a home order television channel begging for attention at Casey Neistat.
is it true that fenix 5 has better battery life than fenix 5X?
no seal on the box?
Love your videos but the audio makes them almost unwatchable. Please get a decent mic.
16:23 ouch did that poor ol watch land ok?
Please, for the love of Pete, buy yourself a Blue Microphones Yeti.  Good video tho!  Thanks!
@8:01  this is the black version and as you can see it is...... eh black  :D
Does anyone know if Garmin is going to continue to support the Fenix 3 with new software?
Can you install offline maps on the 5/5s?
I want to see the watches..
Is the battery life on all models the same?
there is some issue with the audio dude, it's pretty bad
Why did they skip 4? As a Fenix 3 owner I was thinking to myself, am I THAT out of the loop?
Where do you buy one?  Hard to find in DFW.
After all the issues with the Fenix 2 failing to sync, I'll never run with Garmin. They must think people have money to burn so they can charge such high prices for unreliable gear. What's the point in creating a watch if you can't pull the data off it.
My girlfriends dad likes garmon like the military style with the green band
not a single online unboxing with the steel version of the bracelet. disappoint
The t shirt drives me nuts
thanks DCR, when do you estimate your full review will come out? please if you could give the altimeter and barometer a thorough test! I just got rid of my fenix 3hr which suffers from a defective altimeter and barometer (see https://forums.garmin.com/showthread.php?363520-Fenix-3-HR-barometer-Altimeter-errors/page68). not sure if I should trust Garmin again!
Mantap harganya berapa itu
The only thing you need is a better microphone.
Thanks, you're the goto guy for Garmin watches - but please get a better mic!
Ant+ FE-C??
Garmins metal casebacks always give me skin rash, whyyy introduce that again???
Where is oreo
Alguien me lo regala?
시계는 카시오가 최고다..
Good video. Really bad Sound :(
I do not care about the box or the bands or the rest o your putzing ! What will it do, how to do it and a demo or two !  I will go elsewhere
15 minutes pour montrer qu'on peut changer les bracelets .?.??? On s'en fou carrement on achète pas ce genre de motre , pour le plaisir de demonter les bracelets ..
send me one or u use all tree on the hand ;)
Good lord these watches are huge and expensive.... don't see the point. Heavy / bulky / expensive....
Your shirt is out of focus. Couldn't take my eyes off it either. Very distracting  ;)
I don't understand anybody should be interested is this device.... read some analyses!! Ray you're wasting time, so much more important things to investigate/report!  Very much on the brands side as well, just like with specifying prices as $599,99 or giving us the brands excuse 'they're working on it' when their software isn't functioning.......
Why aren't you covering the problem many people are experiencing with their Fenix 3's ABC functions? It is dishonesty by omission IMO... Reviews should include positive & negative issues, otherwise they are just adverts made by people who want to get free stuff.
I know you are fully aware of the issues because people have asked you to help.
There is also the separate matter of how Garmin has treated their customers over the last year which has been shameful.
Speak up on this please.
its so hard to find a video like this...talking about cycling watches pairing and others...thak you a keep up the good work
Just what I needed to properly use custom routes in navigation within the cycling app. Thanks!
Great, this video really helped me to get into this feature in no-time!
At first I was shocked by the sound level of the introduction - I watch videos with a headset and it was painful. 
But the video itself was good and you actually showed me a function that I wasn't aware of although I have the fenix 5 now for over a year (= 
NICE!
Fantastic video Mate 👍 getting a Fenix 6 next week because of this.
Hey John, i really liked your review. had a good sequence of events and clear video and onscreen examples. Would have been great to see how you add data to garmin connect/strava, but besides this it was great
Thanks! This was very useful!
Appreciate your review bro.
Subscribed
Any idea of the maximum battery life when using it on the bike like this with that backlight on?
Today I did my first ride on a new course in an unknown location using the Fenix 5 as a navigation device.
It was a disaster...

I planed the track on Komoot and imported it via Garmin Connect to my watch. Thanks to your and a couple of other videos I knew how to get started.
Most of the time, the watch told me to turn left/right a couple of seconds AFTER I passed the particular road I had to turn in to.
About a dozen time  I didn't go a message at all. I only noticed the beep and "not on track" symbol and the red arrow chanced direction instantly.
I lost count on how many times I did a u-turn, to get back on track...
Very helpful.
Do you have to be in a bike mode (starting activity) for it to alert you?  I use my edge to track data but would like my watch (not being used for activity tracking)to alert me if a car comes nearby
When car is approaching is it only graphics on screen or also vibration / sound on watch? I'm riding with watch on my wrist.
Is there a easy way to start cycling activity on garmin fenix 5s with 
a) no press at all,  the auto detects my movement when I start to cycle and when I stop to cycle




b) with one press to start to one press to stop.  like some shortcut setting




Currently I can only find a way to press top right button three times,  to enter app list,  to select cycling and to start.  When I stop, I have to press to pause (not to end) and wait for a few minutes to have the option to stop and save the activity.  I just feel it's a bit too complicated.
Do you need to have the sensors for avg speed?
i think all your videos are now appearing on my suggested list....or maybe i should have your old Fenix 5? :-)
Great review of features! Clean and tight video! I'm wailing between 5 sapphire and 5x, mostly since they are really close in price im leaning towards 5x so i get the maps (though i think the 5x might be too big for my small wrists :O). Really interesting to see that the regular 5 has some navigational features that you showed in the video though! Might have to revaluate... again!
Is there an option to have your watch vibrate if the Varia detects a vehicle?
Do you think it can replace the garmin edge 820 or any edge for that matter? Thanks for the video
Great review.  Just wondering, does the Varia radar pick up motorbikes or just cars/trucks?
Excellent video,  The video was very clear and well edited.  I'm debating on getting an edge or upgrade from my Fenix 3 to the 5x.  I'm a cyclist so this video helped.  Thanks!
Great video, picked up a few tips which I’ll try out tomorrow 😀
What heart rate sensor are you using? I assume you need a special one to enable the watch to figure out the aerobic/ anaerobic parts of the ride? Or is it just going after your pulse, without measuring the O2 level?
Thanks for the great review. Just a quick question: do the various outputs (e.g. speed, distance, altitude, pressure, etc.) have units attached to them, or just the numerical value? Thx!
Thanks for the info! Can you use your di2 to move through the screens?
Looking to buy a new Garmin watch.  Will the Fenix 5s and 935 do the same as the watch you used in the video?  Also does it stay lit up the entire ride?  Thanks
Hiya, if you just have the watch on your wrist is there any way for it to give you information from your varia i.e. by vibration or by beeping?

I ride with a wahoo bolt and I have a Garmin 935 (Fenix 5 plastic) I'm wondering about getting the Varia but I'd prefer to keep the watch on my wrist. I used to have a Fenix 3 and ride with it on the same mount you are using so I could always do that again I suppose.
Do i need to buy the speed and cadence sensor for my watch so that it can detect the distance and speed? I own a fenix 5s plus
the loudness of the intro in comparison with your smooth silent voice may cracked my inner ear 😅
hi i would you like knwof if is possible change page on fenig using key upper di2
Can I use the Varia Radar paired with the Fenix 3 ?
The software of my fenix 5 freezes when using navigation on longer rides, and the only way our is an Hard Reset. Disapointing... any similar experience?
Hello sir I have fenix 6 pro the future that shows cars on the watch doest come with it or do I need extra accessories???
Can you switch pages on the watch with di2 shifter buttons?
Great video. Have to say the Varia integration looks like a total afterthought from Garmin. Giant data fields but when a car might be ready to mow you down you get little bands running up the side? ....Really?
Hi, what is the name of the bike watch holder? Where did you get it from?
How long does the battery last with all the cycling sensors connected
what is that watchface at 0:45 ? it's pretty cool!
Es un 5x?
Great review. Is there a cadence feature?
this model is fenix 5 sapphire?
your voice is very very quiet and your intro sequence very very loud.....     need to do some work on your sound levels :/
dude, reduce your intro volume...
Why not wear it on your wrist
WARNING!!: At 0:38 really cranks his volume with his intro music/video. If you have buds or headphones on, you may damage your hearing.
(I recommended all video channel people watch a video on how to set fixed audio volume across the videos they make and upload.)
No, do not check volume level, be another amateur that can't even check something so simple ! WTF
Es un 5x?
Es un 5x?
Thanks DC for making these kinds of in depth videos - Really helps out people like get a feel of the functions.
Nice change for the intro!
Loved the new intro!
Love the new intro
Seems pretty good. 
Could you also do a run with the 5s to compare the weight vs the 5?
Also interested in the optical heart rate sensor.
Thanks a lot for your videos!

A comparison between the hr strap and optical hr sensor would be awesome.
Would love to know if the alti + barometers finally work. As this was my reason for ditching the F3. Great vid with more info on the F5
Great videos! Would be cool if you could test how the 5x is to use for mointainbiking. Navigating the trails and keeping an eye on speed, heart rate, cadence and so on.
Thanks DC Rainmaker for the review on how well the Fenix 5 updates pace.  I've had my Fenix 5 Sapphire for a week now and am still learning it.  Something I'm having trouble with is connecting it to my home WiFi.  Went through all the settings through the USB cable to my computer and Garmin Express.  But, it still says I'm not connected when I sync.  Reading other places that other people are having similar problems.  Any help sorting this out would be appreciated DC Rainmaker.  There appears to be other metrics (i.e. lactate threshold) that apparently will take some time for the watch to learn me first.  Thanks again for your great reviews and info videos.
I like this test. I don't know why this is important, but I like it. I plan to buy this watch :)
Please do a workout/gym setting review, how well the HR works and calories burned etc
Very useful video. Ray, have you an idea of how this compares to earlier Fenix watches (I have the original Fenix 3 Sapphire version)? Debating whether to update to the 5.
another great review from DC!
Can you tell something about the "indoor" function. it should give the pace without the gps. is that quite accurate ?
how is the interval coached ? by a noticable beep ?

to bad endomondo doesn't support a foodpod, great audiocoach with the intervaltrainingplans...
would have loved to see how you looked like filming this. lol. good job as always.
I'm really excited for this...is there a release date yet? I know it's supposed to be in march but I'm thinking about taking a day or two off work to test it out.
Hey DC I love your reviews. I have a Fenix 3 HR and am contemplating purchasing an Edge 520 or similar Garmin. My question is will I have to start a cycling activity on the Fenix in order for heart rate data to be transmitted to the Edge during the ride?
Thank you for these Fenix 5 videos... so how about with a 5x - a sky dive to a mountain, snowboard, road cycle, run to a beach and a swim!
Thanks for sharing!, such a useful explanation on the use of pace on the fenix 5. 

I like to request a overview of a training on a bike paired to the ant+ meters (like cadence, watts / other bike dynamics)

maybe It's capable of connecting to Bluetooth watt meters??

I'm planning to buy a Fenix 5 of 5X to use as "dailydriver" to log various workouts as cycling, running, tabatta / strengthtraining, spinning, skiing etc.
Do you advise to buy the 5X over the 5 on use the sports above? 
Great video. How accurate is the new calorie counting from firstbeat on the fenix 5?
would be nice a reviews of gimbals for the VIRB Ultra 30 and video setting based on activity walk trough
DC, I plan to use the Fenix 5 for cardio, weight training and in-line skating workout.  Would like to see you test it in those scenarios with and without HRM.  Thanks and TGIF!
Hi Ray, thanks for this video ;) Would it be possible to have a review of the mapping options for the 5X (my main point is, can I enter an address to bike/run to like the edge 820?). Thanks again, and enjoy Spain
Hi for the first time users of the Garmin Fenix series watches can you show how you set it up to get the most out of the watch and the metrics.
Great video. Thank you for constantly making my wife go crazy with how much I spend on fitness tech. And on that note... which gimbal did you get to work with the virb ultra 30?  I don't need one at all, but of course I am going to get one. Thanks for all you do for our community.
You mentioned, you are wearing a HR strap in this video. Did you by any chance compare the unpaired HR Strap to the wrist-based HR of Fenix 5?
Does the Fenix 5 have the same bug still as the 920,  as in if you have alerts set ,  save the settings folder for the sports, then reset the watch back to factory settings then put your settings folder back on the watch.  The alerts will work but the ability to change that alert is gone.   Thanks
Hi Ray. Looks like you already long time using Fenix 5. Quick question, is it make sense to buy HRM-Tri strip to use together with Fenix 5?
Hey DC! We need some extensive comparison to Fenix 3HR. A lot of people are asking themselves question: is it worth upgrading from 3HR. Cheers!
Ray - was this with the recently released 2.30 Firmware?  The instant pacing looks promising!
request: how well does 5x hold to a course it's navigating? can it effectively serve as a navigational tool with navigating streets/trails where tall buildings, trees, and walls of rock obscure sky? how does 5x compare with predecessors and competitors?
Hi
Is it normal for the pace to oscillate during a relatively constant running speed?
DC, I was wondering if the fénix 5 has the same problem in extra steps while driving and does that effect your total calories burn for the day??
Thank you very much Ray for this great review! - I understood you were using a GoPro for your shooting. Would you please briefly let us know about your setup how to have the heart rate, pace etc. "mirrored" in your video. Thank you very much looking forward to your Fenix 5 in depth review mid March!
How long it last before it obsolete? It is beautiful but does fitness tracker at this price point is worth it? I'm looking for my first real watch that looks good and tell time at a glance at my wrist, and maybe a bit of music control function(if I get a smartwatch like this instead traditional Quartz watch), fitness is not necessary for me as I think all the number I get from the data won't directly help me, I improve my jogging on my own way. Although I didn't own and experiences any fitness tracker yet, do you think fitness tracker make sense and useful for me?
Does F5X upgrade or change their ABC and GPS sensor or micro ship from F3HR ? I was own F3HR and found the the ABC and GPS sensor are suck! (now it already sold as a 2nd hand).
Can you record and upload the fenix 7 instant pace problem?? Thank you
Running at a 6 min/mile pace while holding arm up.. filming and having a conversation... HAA!!!  The gopro did a good job too.
Thanks for the Review DC. 

What's the intro song?
Still waiting for my 5x, but around here with luck i get it in April.
what do you think, for how many years fenix 5x should last?
Try do the same test in a forrest. Could be interesting to see if F5 is just as accurate?
Great. Cannot wait to upgrade my fenix 3 to 5x. It's a shame that the Apple Watch 2 is crap for Running, cause of inaccurancy.
Hey DC!
i need Advice Please!!! From your experience Fenix Chronos for 899 USD or fenix 5 850USD? and how long does garmin keep supporting and updating firmware for their products???
Whats the purpose of testing anything GPS related near the sea on clear day? Its perfect conditions for gps reception. Try do same test in downtown
If you have an Android device, can you try Sleep as Android with it?  I know it's still very much in Beta for Garmin devices right now, but I'd like to see how good it is.  Also I believe you should have some devices that are not so much in beta for SaA that you can compare.

A good smart alarm is a huge feature of a smartwatch for me but is hard to find good info about.  Sleep as Android is fantastic and very feature-rich from the phone end of things (controlling smartlights and everything) but having it be able to play nicely with a wearable or having the wearable be able to do it's own smart alarm would be better for a number of reasons.

Sadly, many of the devices it is easy to find info about using as a smart alarm also have TERRIBLE battery life and therefore need to be charged basically nightly as it is so it wouldn't easily fit in my daily routine (i.e. Android Wear), whereas several Garmins have enough battery life that I ought to be able to get my 24x7 info from them including sleep tracking/smart alarm and then some training in and still reliably make it to the weekend where I wind up tethered to my apartment and can charge it then anyways (laundry day).
Wasn't that supposed to be standard already? I'm asking cause my Polar V800 just nails the pace from day one (March 2016 in my case). Comparing to what you showed here with Fenix 5, Polar V800 is waaaaay more responsive in pace matter. In fact when I stop it takes him not more than 1 second to go down to zero.
can you review only the band? ex: Fenix 3 vs 3hr vs 5.. the 3hr was came with a nice, strong band much better from fe 3, the look of fenix 5 band is very simiral with the fenix 3.. is strong like 3hr band?
Ray

Where is this beautiful place ?
all right
Make more F5 videos, please :) regardless the topic.
Where in Spain is that? 
+ DC Rainmaker i think I figured out why the Fenix models have more hard times than other Garmin watches to figure out a probable instant pace. Would you take a look at this 
https://forums.garmin.com/forum/on-the-trail/wrist-worn/fenix-5-5s/1451743-current-pace-all-wrong-possible-cause#post1452085
and maybe, in you think it is interesting (as other forum users do) possibly try yourself?
I will never get the obsession with "instant pace" it's virtually meaningless unless you have very high tech equipment. In every review, you spend an inordinate amount of time on this stat...to the exclusion of other important information.  I'm sure a lot of people claim they want to know, but we should really educated them on the issues with instant pace.
so better the the apple watch Nike+....
For someone doing a gentle jog, you're quite exhausted! You're breathing like you ran a marathon ;)
👆
you must have gotten some really weird looks when doing this
Great videos! Would be cool if you could test how the 5x is to use for mointainbiking. Navigating the trails and keeping an eye on speed, heart rate, cadence and so on.
Mapping capabilities are what I've been really missing on the Fenix 3. Time to preorder the Fenix 5x !
Very nice review. Thank you.
How about golf? How many courses can it load? Does it show bunkers and water hazards?
Hi, tnx for the review, please review the swimming function if possible.
Advice: when making video like this put the watch on a surface and camera on a tripod - the focus will be constant and it will be easier to see the menus. Right now the camera is moving, the watch is moving - makes me dizzy
Can't wait to see what trickles down to current Forerunner devices (via firmware update) and future Forerunner devices! Do you know if the Garmin Elevate sensor hardware is new or the same in older watches with firmware improvements?
Will any of these updates be able to apply to Fenix 3HR?
short question to the normal fenix 5:
Is it able to navigate preloaded tracks which are tranfered trough Garmins basecamp? As my Fenix 2
I just got my fenix 5 and I don’t know how to get to the place where you can update the softwhere. If you could help me it would be greatly appreciated
Is there any connectivity with C2 rowing machines with PM4 Or PM5? 

Can I synch erg data from my phone to the garmin App or the Garmin Fenex 5?
Great video, thanks. Is this the normal Fenix 5 or the 5X? I ask due to you having the maps on display. I think it's cool how you can see your maps like this. Does it require Wifi?
Hi DCR, is there a way to see my previous rides on my Fenix 5X which were recorded by my Edge 820 ? In other words does Fenix 5x somehow sync with Garmin Connect and show me my cycling exercises that was recorded by other Garmin devices like Garmin Edge etc.
I did not see a geocaching activity/profile like the first garmin fenix/tactix. Does the fenix 5x have paperless geocaching unlike the "via coordinates'' on the fenix 3???
Are you able to do offroad routes with the 5x? I read it is supposed to have Topo maps, wondering if you can have it generate an offroad route like you were able to in the city. I have several parks around that have tons of small trails would like to be able to specify a distance and have it pick the trails for me when I am being lazy :)
very beautiful watch!when is the realise date ?
Actually I appreciate you talking fast. The video is already 10 minutes, longer then my attention span. Agree: tripod and flat surface.
love it! I think i need to buy one!
please, how put you the maps in the garmin fenix 5 ?
Can you please let me know which maps the phone has by default?
what is you opinion of the 5x vs Epix? I just got an Epix but it can be returned. obviously no heart rate monitor is a big difference on the Epix. mapping up to par on this new watch vs Epix or better? screen pixel count noticeable upgrade?
Is the navigation on all the Fenix 5's? Or just the 5x that has Topo mapping?
dc rainmaker can I add a compass or direction of travel on the watch face? When customizing?
Yes, besides the speed I can't tell which button you are pressing other than that...
Great watch great features I look forward to getting mine this week..I bought the fenix 5X sapphire  model..
I'm a Marine so i wanted something durable and rugged but also very functional...

You talk fast lol,   good video  though..
This is the fenik 5x right? Because has maps available.
Hi Ray. Do you know if things like saved locations and my stats get saved back to the connect app? I'm wondering if upgrading from 3hr to 5 will lose these or not? Ta
How many screens we can built for the activity? In the fenix 3 the limit was 8, if I'm right.. and how many digital watch faces?
Do you have any idea how many times you can recharge the battery before it falls to <70% of its original capacity and can the battery be replaced economically or do you just toss the watch in the trash ??
I glanced away when you were going through the sensors, and I could’ve sworn you said Stephen King sensor, I had to watch carefully and find that you were saying speed and cadence.
How do I get this watch to work on the golf course? I have the Garmin golf app on my phone. Is this watch a gps on the golf course? Basically want to only wear the watch on the course and not take my phone?
Does fenix 5 regular version has map function , like the real time tracking ?
So we can navigate by fenix5? I thought that only fot 5x? Omg… i am confused
Can you navigate to a mgr grid with that watch . And set units to meters
How is the brightness of the screen compared to Fenix 3? That's about the only thing that I really want improved...
will it show incoming call alerts when paired with an iOS device?
Maybe I should play this in slow motion, it might end up being useful!!!!!!
3 years later is it still working?
Does anyone know where to find explanations for all the activities? Tactical? Boating? ect.
So what, that fuzzy green dog in the background doesn't move?
You speak very fast :O
Will this pair to a stages indoor bike?
the display should go all the way to the bezel, not have a second inner black ring bezel with the brand name. These smart-watches need to utilize the entire watch face - not be constricted by a false outer black band around the display.
Apart from the lack of WiFi in some of the 5 series it looks to be over all a good smart-watch.
I did not have all those options under maps.  Mine stopped at "Auto Zoom".  What am I missing?
Can you show TOPO maps?
Is the 5+ watches significantly faster than the Fenix 5x watch when it comes to maps such as navigating and loading?
Bro, are you jacked on caffeine!  SLOWWW DOWN
Is Garmin going to update Fenix 3 OS as well, in order to let Fenix 3 owners to have this circular menu?
How is it different than Fenix 3?
Are there any reasons to get this over Fenix 3? I was just about to order Fenix 3 Sapphire HR when this was announced. Now I'm not sure which to go for
Pity the display isn't using the whole of the available space, looks weird with the big black outer ring. Probably no bigger than my 735xt or smaller even?
Which buttons to press for these?
Do the maps work with trail maps too? For hiking, mountaineering, trail running etc..?
Can you connect Bluetooth headsets?
I love the idea of watches. They definitely have the coolness factor. But until I'm running multiple marathons a year I can't justify the purchase in my mind.
Does it support Geocaching? And is there an Interval timer available for HIIT or TUT training?
how do i get maps on fenix 5 . plz help
maybe they will release something at CES way better than any product...proper syncing to other apps
I dont have "Round Trip course." I have fenix 5. I just have courese, activities, saved locations, sight N go, and coordinates.
Is WiFi worth it? What are pros/cons of WiFi vs. Bluetooth?
Uhh, yeah you can do the EXACT SAME CUSTOMIZATION ON ALL THE FENIX 5.
Hello my fenix5 doesn't have map... I don't know how to install the map. I try several times but fail.... could you help me?
can it take elevation data from the map? the epix could not even though the map supports it (lack of updates).
audio feels like I had a stroke at the end of the video
Can it stream music via bluetooth to a BT-headset?
does this have MGRS
Playback speed 0.75 - SORTED! :)
Is there a topographic map in all fenix 5 models?
Suunto 9 or Garmin??
You talk to Fast and move those fingers.....
I like it but with Garmin's track record, it will take 2 years of updates before it works properly!  😂
Actually you have the 5X in the review. Not the 5. Misleading title.
does it show calories counter?
DC Rainmaker who do you think the 5X appeals too?  If you aren't doing camping or hiking on a daily basis I am not sure I need the functionality.  If you are running around the city having different routes seems cool, but I don't know how often I would really use that feature.  What/who would you recommend the 5x over the 5 for?
CAN MAKE ROUTE  ON MAP? DIRECTION
I usually like Rainmaker but good lord please slow down the pace! You speak way too fast for easy following.
Great review but good grief that reflection is annoying.
i want to get this if there is weightlifting option now?
is this a GPS watch?
Why the rush?
can it count temperature?
Can't see a thing with the reflection on the watch. And the camera moves; should've used a tripod. Plus the sound is quite bad.
Seems as easy to scratch the bezel around the clock as it was on F3... Sigh
i have a 5s but dont see points of interest
and vs gear s3?
I'll stick to my ambit 3 peak. I had a fenix 3 hr....I took it back to Best Buy. Lol
Yes yes you can do a lot,   But can you slow down?      Are you on speed or just drink 20 red bulls a day.
So frustrating! You’re not telling us what buttons you are pressing! I can’t figure out how to use this thing and I learned nothing.
Ur going 2 fast explaining the functions of the watch.
Excellent information, found your rate of speech to fast for me as I am a newbie....Many of the acronyms I need to read up on. Overall, thank you for sharing
why use 2 or more fingers at the same time and do it so fast when doing a guide video? i dont se with button you press and you are sooo fast that i do not have time to follow
I bought mine for firstbeat capabilities.  I would much prefer looking at a map on a bigger  space at least  5.5 inches.  You talk too fast Ray.
Hi you are very slow. Please talk little bit faster 😊😝
Damn. Don't have more than one finger on a button! It's great that you sometimes tell us what you are pressing but the rest of the time it is a guessing game for us because you have multiple fingers on multiple buttons. Grrrr.
If you talk for Fenix 5 X and navigations and maps, change your title.
TOOOOO G. D. FAST!!!
can you speak even faster?:-) do you really believe the someone can track  you?
Tooooo damn fast !!!!!!!
Could you slow your speech down please! It might be ok for those who are familiar with your accent but for us in the UK it sounds like another language! Also, you have your fingers and thumbs at the same time covering the buttons so it is hard to tell which you are pressing. For a beginner like me you need to say what each button is and what it does. Thanks!
Looks like you are an expert, most of us are not. Trying to get my first Garmin 5 plus and even stopping the video still got a headache. Slow down, please.
Talking way too fast.
You talk way too fast.....!!
Talking way too fast with poor enunciation.
Dude slow down you're pressing five different buttons and not even talking about what you're doing 1 minute 21
Slow down, you're talking so fast it hard to even figure out what you are saying.
This video is worthless. It’s too fast to follow
It would be great if you would take your time to show new users to get it. So here is your thumbs down.
Way to fast mate - this is poor teaching. All you're doing is telling & showing us how much you know!
This watch is ok but when I found out it only lasts for 5 years for that money it's simply a rip off and a waste of tech
I am really, really happy with my Garmin
great content and really well made video... ty
Hey mate can you do a comparison of the accuracy of HR between the F5 and F3 HR in a workout (gym) and running scenario? Thanks mate.
Thanks. Nice video.
Where did you get your Fenix 5 from?
How comfortable did you find this to wear? It is a big watch.
Does this have the fishing mode with tides and moon ?
my Garmin Fenix 5 has stopped syncing but I can't figure out why.......blue tooth is on, on my phone....any thoughts?
Does garmin have a smartwatch with touch screen?
I got mine yesterday, $700.
its so hard to find a video like this...talking about cycling watches pairing and others...thak you a keep up the good work
Just what I needed to properly use custom routes in navigation within the cycling app. Thanks!
Great, this video really helped me to get into this feature in no-time!
At first I was shocked by the sound level of the introduction - I watch videos with a headset and it was painful. 
But the video itself was good and you actually showed me a function that I wasn't aware of although I have the fenix 5 now for over a year (= 
NICE!
Fantastic video Mate 👍 getting a Fenix 6 next week because of this.
Hey John, i really liked your review. had a good sequence of events and clear video and onscreen examples. Would have been great to see how you add data to garmin connect/strava, but besides this it was great
Thanks! This was very useful!
Appreciate your review bro.
Subscribed
Any idea of the maximum battery life when using it on the bike like this with that backlight on?
Today I did my first ride on a new course in an unknown location using the Fenix 5 as a navigation device.
It was a disaster...

I planed the track on Komoot and imported it via Garmin Connect to my watch. Thanks to your and a couple of other videos I knew how to get started.
Most of the time, the watch told me to turn left/right a couple of seconds AFTER I passed the particular road I had to turn in to.
About a dozen time  I didn't go a message at all. I only noticed the beep and "not on track" symbol and the red arrow chanced direction instantly.
I lost count on how many times I did a u-turn, to get back on track...
Very helpful.
Do you have to be in a bike mode (starting activity) for it to alert you?  I use my edge to track data but would like my watch (not being used for activity tracking)to alert me if a car comes nearby
When car is approaching is it only graphics on screen or also vibration / sound on watch? I'm riding with watch on my wrist.
Is there a easy way to start cycling activity on garmin fenix 5s with 
a) no press at all,  the auto detects my movement when I start to cycle and when I stop to cycle




b) with one press to start to one press to stop.  like some shortcut setting




Currently I can only find a way to press top right button three times,  to enter app list,  to select cycling and to start.  When I stop, I have to press to pause (not to end) and wait for a few minutes to have the option to stop and save the activity.  I just feel it's a bit too complicated.
Do you need to have the sensors for avg speed?
i think all your videos are now appearing on my suggested list....or maybe i should have your old Fenix 5? :-)
Great review of features! Clean and tight video! I'm wailing between 5 sapphire and 5x, mostly since they are really close in price im leaning towards 5x so i get the maps (though i think the 5x might be too big for my small wrists :O). Really interesting to see that the regular 5 has some navigational features that you showed in the video though! Might have to revaluate... again!
Is there an option to have your watch vibrate if the Varia detects a vehicle?
Do you think it can replace the garmin edge 820 or any edge for that matter? Thanks for the video
Great review.  Just wondering, does the Varia radar pick up motorbikes or just cars/trucks?
Excellent video,  The video was very clear and well edited.  I'm debating on getting an edge or upgrade from my Fenix 3 to the 5x.  I'm a cyclist so this video helped.  Thanks!
Great video, picked up a few tips which I’ll try out tomorrow 😀
What heart rate sensor are you using? I assume you need a special one to enable the watch to figure out the aerobic/ anaerobic parts of the ride? Or is it just going after your pulse, without measuring the O2 level?
Thanks for the great review. Just a quick question: do the various outputs (e.g. speed, distance, altitude, pressure, etc.) have units attached to them, or just the numerical value? Thx!
Thanks for the info! Can you use your di2 to move through the screens?
Looking to buy a new Garmin watch.  Will the Fenix 5s and 935 do the same as the watch you used in the video?  Also does it stay lit up the entire ride?  Thanks
Hiya, if you just have the watch on your wrist is there any way for it to give you information from your varia i.e. by vibration or by beeping?

I ride with a wahoo bolt and I have a Garmin 935 (Fenix 5 plastic) I'm wondering about getting the Varia but I'd prefer to keep the watch on my wrist. I used to have a Fenix 3 and ride with it on the same mount you are using so I could always do that again I suppose.
Do i need to buy the speed and cadence sensor for my watch so that it can detect the distance and speed? I own a fenix 5s plus
the loudness of the intro in comparison with your smooth silent voice may cracked my inner ear 😅
hi i would you like knwof if is possible change page on fenig using key upper di2
Can I use the Varia Radar paired with the Fenix 3 ?
The software of my fenix 5 freezes when using navigation on longer rides, and the only way our is an Hard Reset. Disapointing... any similar experience?
Hello sir I have fenix 6 pro the future that shows cars on the watch doest come with it or do I need extra accessories???
Can you switch pages on the watch with di2 shifter buttons?
Great video. Have to say the Varia integration looks like a total afterthought from Garmin. Giant data fields but when a car might be ready to mow you down you get little bands running up the side? ....Really?
Hi, what is the name of the bike watch holder? Where did you get it from?
How long does the battery last with all the cycling sensors connected
what is that watchface at 0:45 ? it's pretty cool!
Es un 5x?
Great review. Is there a cadence feature?
this model is fenix 5 sapphire?
your voice is very very quiet and your intro sequence very very loud.....     need to do some work on your sound levels :/
dude, reduce your intro volume...
Why not wear it on your wrist
WARNING!!: At 0:38 really cranks his volume with his intro music/video. If you have buds or headphones on, you may damage your hearing.
(I recommended all video channel people watch a video on how to set fixed audio volume across the videos they make and upload.)
No, do not check volume level, be another amateur that can't even check something so simple ! WTF
Es un 5x?
Es un 5x?
