Fénix 7 user here. It’s incredibly useful not only for running, I also use it on my bikes as a head unit mounting it on the handlebars, swim, skiing, everything. As a triathlete doing races where navigation is sometimes needed, it saves me from having to buy a separate GPS only for the bike. Also for trail running, you have a clear map so you never get lost.
I’m an Apple Watch user and I’ve been thinking of converting for a couple months now. The Forerunner 965 is gorgeous and I think the navigation feature would be seriously game changing for me because I hate planning routes. The training guide also seems like such a cool feature. Def adding to my Christmas list this year!
As a new runner, all of these options were slightly overwhelming, but it's so cool learning about all the technology out there for runners (and athletes of all kinds!) As someone who gets lost just trying to navigate the trails of a park that's only about 2 sq. miles, any watch with GPS navigation sounds like a dream! Will definitely check out that video that covers all of the Garmin watch specs to learn more about the Forerunner series options!
I would definitely go for the 965 or Epix pro just to experience the amoled screens. I've really been eyeing something with navigation and maps when I go on trail runs or newer areas around me. Love that Garmin has so many options!
Great video! I have been using my Forerunner 745 for 2 yrs now and I must say it does almost everything I need. Sometimes I wish I had bought the 955 or Fenix series for those added Navigation feature when I'm out on a hike. The raceday widget also seems very appealing but that alone doesn't justify upgrading my watch at the moment.
I've only been a runner for just over 18 months but I've been watching The Running Channel since I did my first parkrun back in April 2022. I have completed 3 10K races, 2 Half Marathons and the London Marathon and I'm about to start training towards my second marathon in Manchester next year. I would love to get my hands on the Forerunner 965 to use the Suggested Workouts feature to train towards my next races. I am also starting to get into trail running as well so the navigation features would be awesome too
I'm doing long autonomous mountain trips, and to have something that is a little helper in health monitoring, health(like aclimitizing to high altitude), and just a nice watch, you almost don't need to charge - this is amazing.
The video comes at just the right time, as I'm considering switching to Garmin. For me, it would be the Forerunner 965 with its new AMOLED display and full navigation maps, which would definitely help me during my runs.
I ran my first ever marathon a few months ago and I’m really happy that I got threw it without any problem. I’m rocking a garmin forerunner 45 but looking to upgrade to a bigger one, preferably to one whit navigation. Therefore The 965 would be my watch of choice.
Great video, lays out all of the differences and features. The Forerunner 965 would be a great upgrade! The full-featured maps are great for navigation.
This has been a year of growing possibilities in my active life, and I now have my first 12 hour run success. It would be great to say that my active life required the battery life and multitude of options provided in the Epix Pro or even the Enduro 2. Maybe someday! For now, the Forerunner 955 Solar for the stamina feature, navigation, and GPS battery life provide what is right for me now.
Been eyeing up the Forerunner 965 for a while. Love my Instinct 2 - navigation is it's only let down when I'm out in the wild! 😂
965 would be perfect to help me train for my first marathon. The navigation will make it easier to explore new routes whilst doing my long runs in London. It's so easy to get stuck in rut doing the same km run, I feel this watch will help me shake it up. Thank you
I love the forerunner range, and love my 265. I have always donated my old garmins that i upgrade to newer runners because I know the difference having a good watch can make but also that its a big expense early on. I'd love to upgrade to the 965 from my 265 mainly for the added navigation and mapping capabilities. I use the navigation I have a lot but would like to have the clearer maps when exploring new places
Great video.I would like to see a video on the 965 using navigation and the routes features in actual practice.
Thank you again for very informative video! I personally picked up FR 265 and would love for my husband to have FR 965 instead of my handed over Vivoactive 3 music so he can experience the navigation and amazing battery life.
I've been using the venu 2 for almost 2 years but would love to have the 965, I think it would give me the confidence to try running in new places with the awesome navigation features
As a fairly new runner, id love a forerunner watch, especially the 965 because i just really find the features fit my needs and interests best - the navigation, the data are all things that would make my life easier!
For me the forerunner 965 will be perfect. Sometimes i run on a new route and i have to check my phone to almost every corner where to turn in :D  so the navigation is very important for me.
Great explanation on the wide range of watch. If I could choose a watch I would go for the 965  for navigation, suggested workout with goa, all the metric removing the guessing out of trainingl, the nice screen,...  epic gen 2 pro is really interessting but not sure about the weigth.
Thank you for the helpful video! Is the 965 the only watch with the round trip feature? Is it also the only watch that offers turn by turn navigation on the watch during a run or do others offer that?
I've been running for about 4 years now, but a bit inconsistently (various injuries, taking time off, etc.). In fact, I'm injured right now, but it's not actually from running - I played too hard with my dog and twisted my ankle 😂 Anyway, for me I think the forerunner 265 would be ideal, as I'm not super experienced with running nor do I need every fancy feature or many metrics. But I definitely like the idea of reliable navigation and the suggested workouts!
I'm thinking about doing an ultra at some point  but I'm terrible at navigation.  So thinking I need the forerunner 965 or the enduro 2
For maps navigation which one is better between forerunner 965 and epix gen2 pro?
forerunner 965 would be amazing just because navigation  for round trip route
I would choose (like to be prized) with a Garmin 965,  or Fenix 7 Solar, because of these watches bright screen and navigation capabilities.  I race in the 50-55 age category.  This year I’ve set PBs at distances 5km, 10km, and 7 miles.  
After many years of running and chasing the latest tech (that I can afford) I’ve had the 310XT, the 755 and currently the Fenix 5. I find the metrics on the Fenix to be pretty unreliable as far as temperature, altitude, etc. go to the point where I’ve had to learn to ignore them. The temperature reading does tend to be about 2 degrees higher than actual so I can get a rough idea but when my watch tells me that I started my run at 50m below sea level and finished at 30m below sea level (which is actually at the same place) I can’t hold any value to the information until I use Strava to correct the readings.
I’m really keen to get the 965 for the new screen, better map navigation, and all of the new metrics offered compared to the Fenix 5 but I’m finding it very difficult to justify the price tag to my bank manager, justifying it to myself is easy. 😂
After using the apple watch for awhile now, I am itching to have more advanced metrics. The forerunner 265 looks like a good in between for the pro features without going too crazy with all the added navigation features that I probably can't use in the city.
I’m looking at either getting the Garmin fenix 6 pro or the forerunner 955. I want something that will be good for occasional backpacking with no service with a good battery life, but is also great for everyday wear and running with great navigation. Is the 955 good for all of these things or should I go with the fenix 6 pro?
Des's Sapphire option on the forerunner 9xx series is a good one. I'd buy it. I'd also like to see better smartwatch features such as improvements to both text_email handling and turn-by-turn Google Maps navigation. Plus the latest HR sensor of course.
Hi Des, I think I missed an explanation how navigation works  and some screenshots how it looks.
Thank you for a great video. Does the venu 3 show actual altitude (not just elevation gain)? Want to use it in mountaineering.
Hi, could you please provide some information or a video or reference on how the watch works for navigation? I am interested in using it for climbing or biking. I would like to upload a route as a GPX file and use it as turn-by-turn navigation. What kind of maps does the watch use? If not, what external apps can be used for this? Is this watch suitable for my needs?
Venu 3 Has navigation and maps like in Fenix/epix watches?
550 euros here in NL. I just got my Fenix7 for 518 euros. Think the V3 is kinda overpriced. No training readiness, no navigation, no multiband..
Hallo ! Great video. I'm Nicola, a chill teacher in an international school in the center of Paris, where teacher salary IS QUESTIONABLE! However, I live and breathe running, rowing, and cycling. And skiing, when it's cold enough/altitude is good. I'm looking to participate in an Ironman 70.3 or full ironman in Belgrade in the summer, this watch would be unimaginable for that! Thanks for your consideration!
2.  I also am wanting to train for my first ever iron man with all this free time but my current garmin navigation sends me in circle and my GPS doesn’t work. So would be nice to explore something more than my street!
I deserve the new Garmin FR955 because when I went out running early morning (still dark) with a watch without a map/navigation function I ended up getting lost and running down a narrow trail in the pitch dark and I couldn't find my way.  I bumped into a pig style (literally) and disturb a mum pig with her piglets, scare the !?$* out of both her and me as she came running out to investigate.  I jumped the nearest fenced into some stingers only to find the path and style I should have been on, if only I'd had the new Garmin FR955 to guide me.
does it do navigation?
My main concern with garmin edge 530 is how bad the navigation is. Once you started the course you can't modify it. When you get off course navigation won't guide you back on course. Is there any upgrade that fixes these problems?
Used is an option, but I’ll still go with my old phone. Heavier and less battery. I’ll keep using sound navigation and turning the screen on when needed.
So in one hit you loosing navigation and call-for-help resources
Also, if you ride in areas where cell service is not available or spotty,  a navigation system will still work
Phone based navigation is fine for commuting and people who don’t care about riding good routes.
Big Calimoto fan with Quadlock then I bought the XT, now I hardly ever use my phone for navigation, huge improvement over my BMW Nav V too. Otherwise I use Google maps as a back up…
I just stumbled across your review video.  I have a Zumo XT that I am fairly happy with but would be much happier to use Google maps for on road navigation and GAIA for offroad or track navigation.  For those that follow Itchy Boots, she started a new season with a new GPS.  It appears to be a XENARC 7" tablet.  It is available with either an  Android or Windows operating system and has a docking station for easy charging available.  I am thinking of ordering the Android version.  I have posted a question on Itchy boots YouTube channel as to what GPS app she is using but have yet to get a response.
Honestly I don’t get why all the mounting options for smartphones (except RAM) require a compatible phone case, I don’t wanna have a bad phone case all day because I use my phone for navigation on my bike… also my phones camera was destroyed by my bikes vibrations once. Im now also a proud owner of a garmin GPS…
I think the value of the ‘gadget feeling’ makes people buy navigation system. Google Maps is still king 👑 above TomTom and Garmin.. and yes vibrations could cause a problem, but than again do not go off road with your phone in a Ram mount.. on highways it is perfect and saves me a lot of money on a external Navi system.
I wasn't going to comment, Anyway....... And I'm certain this has been mentioned in the comments below, But you've omitted the most important reason for a stand alone GPS Satellite Navigation unit. 
surely if you want navigation, you use the zumo and IF you want a mcdonuts, just get you phone out. Also, gps devices are effective because they don't rely on coverage, they use satellites and they can be found anywhere in the world. Just saying.. A good review though, thank you.
It is so funny that all those phone versus satnav reviews always consider using an existing phone to a dedicated satnav. Why not review a dedicated rugged navigation phone? It is cheaper, faster, better resolution, waterproof, glove capable, runs  any nav app you may like. you need to couple only ONE bluetooth device (headset), so no messing with the correct order of coupling, it runs your favorite music app, speedcam warning app, tracking app. Compare an XT to a rugged phone, it wil ALWAYS lose... Simply buy a rugged phone, combine it with a DuoLock instead of an overrated quadlock, and you will still be cheaper AND have better hardware.
Yeezz that Garmin is slow…..Better than using your current phone is using an old phone. Your current phone stays in your pocket. I use a Samsung S8 specifically for motorcycle navigation. Spend your money on petrol and ride.
Being able to load in flights in advance to have it adjust your suggested workouts in advance would be a very helpful
Great watch , but why on earth one will need a watch to tell him how tired is he after long flight :)
Hey Patrick, thanks for your great review! I've got FR 935, haven't upgraded to 945 as I still love 935 and it's like hard to say goodbye to it :) I noticed and I'm thinking if to go for a brand new Epix 2, but it's hugely expensive, I don't need maps, navigation, I'm runner, need it primarily for running up to marathon and for all day long wearing even for sleep tracking during night. Yes I'm pretty used to have 935 every night during sleep. As you said, so fantastic lightweight sport tester. That's why I don't want to urge to "bulkier" Epix. That leightweight of 935/945 is awesome, tailored for runners :). Now I'm more thinking if new FR955 or 945 plus or something like that might come out soon, I mean e.g. by May/June this year. Then I'd like to wait otherwise dilemma if to go for FR945 or Epix 2, but 945 a bit more likewise :) Best, Peter from Slovakia
Man, you really helped me out. I watched tons of different videos to really understand the system of navigation in the Garmin Instinct, but your’s was perfect! Short, efficient and straight to the point, with the link of your source ! You really deserve more followers and likes 😉. Thank you !
does the gps function can display Z (elevation/altitude) on the screen? how?
What about course navigation as compared to other Garmin watches?
I bought a Fenix 1 with a similar display and basic Open Street Maps capabilities, navigation, barometer, thermometer, accelerometer, compass... almost 7 years ago for 280€!
I wish these demos would go back to real basics... KISS - Keep It Simple Stupid - how does one navigate round all the multiple options easily.. you go through the power saver options as if we know exactly what all the navigation buttons on the side do.. You click those buttons as fast as you speak.. really frustrating!
Can I also ask, as clearly you like your mtb, what is the best widget to use for following routes and finding good trails?  Is it possible to bluetooth to some headphones directions or get the garmin to talk instead, wouldn't need to look at the watch then.  I've been using Trailforks with a garmin edge but just bought this solar watch, will sell the computer now.  In the end my iphone with komoot was best for navigation but rubbish at finding trails, there doesn't seem a perfect solution to find techy trails
Great review! But my F5+ has already so many features I don't need or use, why pay more for more things I don't use? E.g. popularity routing leads me along main roads although I live in the woods, or the navigation, which I used only to try it out. What I need is navigation along a pre-defined track, the maps, accurate GPS and flawless connection to the sensors, the rest is nice or even useless!
Thanks for a very good overview. Do you know if Fenix6 uses Barometer for Altitude measurements or GPS signal, or is it possible to choose?
Having a Suunto 9 which is big and kind of just a different looking ambit 3... would you recommend going for a Fenix 6s Pro? I miss the round trip routing, map navigation and more data analytics... Suunto's app is really behind the competition and I hate being dependent of a computer to be able to update your Suunto. Will I be happy with the Fenix or is there not that much of a difference with regards to the Suunto? I hope the wrist HR is better than Suunto's too
Does it have the same problem with ABC like the 5X where the Altitude, Barometer, Temperature sensor fail after few months? I had to swap my old 5X about 9 times under warranty because of this Altimeter, Barometer, Temperature failure issue?
c. it broke down several times whike using it for navigation in difficult terrain (horrible)
Let me keep it real, the "navigation graphics" are :TRASH! you get better pixels playing Pac Man 256 than what was presented in this video. "Nuff Said" (Stan Lee R. I. P).
Navigation is a let down with basic mapping ,I would expect 1.25 is mapping for this price ,again view ranger on your phone is 30 a year and very good.
I would want a watch that does these things: multisport, navigation (I want to do some trailruns) and music.
I don't think people are really seeing the potential of including pulse-ox. You can manipulate your breathing to to change your oxygen saturation thus mimicking altitude training. If this could be broadcast on to your training app so you can see it would help (my) training to no end.
This was very helpful.  I need a device primarily for navigation.  I purchased the 530 over the Wahoo Roam.
After 4 years still seems to be the best deal. I am buying one today to replace the 7 years old 520 which still works fine but can't cope with navigation on a centenary.
Wanted a Garmin device for the navigation, but I was concerned about the new upgraded model being announced. 
@DC Rainmaker, I know this is an old video but I am looking for my first cycling computer and I went straight to the Garmin 530 which I can get for £230 (on sale) in the UK but then I found the Garmin 1030 (not the plus) on sale for only £299 and I am now stuck which to pick. I want to explore more with maps than chase KOM's so navigation and re-routing (I am new to this area) is more important to me. Any help would be amazing based on what is out there for sub £300. Loved the videos BTW :-)
Thanks for the video! re Navigation, on a ride if I want to go a different route (say take a shortcut) to the one I've set and deliberately miss out a waypoint will the re-routing always try to force me back to that waypoint or does it realise I've 'passed' that part of the course and continue on to the next waypoint? (hope that makes sense!)
Garmin 530 or Wahoo Roam? I’m coming from a Garmin 820 which has been buggy at times, not as good at navigation as I hoped and after 2.5 yrs use now only has a 4 hour battery life. My 810 before that was less than perfect too.  The 530 seems to have cool features but Wahoo has a reputation for being less buggy
The mountain bike navigation on my Edge 520 Plus is very disappointing. Unit is too slow to keep up on twisty trails with many trail intersections. Should I expect the 530 to be markedly better?
My primary use is navigation and loading alot of route/POI content from GPX files.
- The usability to show when it is recording and not simply does not exist. Several times I rode kms to realize it was paused (mainly when using the navigation mode. Please Garmin, add a single icon, light feedback, anything...
Do you know if using limited flight range balls over normal balls would make a difference in the readings with the G80? If not would it be possible for a video on it thanks👍🏼
Hey, there are a couple of things I seem to miss in every every review I've seen up to now (also for the 5x). How does entering coordinates work on the trail (and start navigation to them)? What options do you have for the map? Is north up also possible? Now we bought a vivoactive 3 for my wife I do like a number of functions, but I also want the mapping and use it for geocaching, so I need the option to enter coordinates easily. I also do prefer to have north up on gps, although I could work with track up if needed.
Is it possible to load a course to the Fenix 5 plus, and have the course display during a ride, but not have navigation vibrations? On a MTB ride today, it was vibrating on every switchback...pretty annoying when I really just want to look at the map occasionally to make sure I’m on the right trail. Thanks!
( not just highest hill i had gone up..but accrewed hight obtained in the redoing sections of my hight and re going up of flights of stairs)..
DCR, question about navigation: can you simply enter an address via the watch or phone and navigate there turn by turn? or is the navigation function poi and random route based only?
would you suggest Sunnto spartan sport wrist HR or Garmin fenix 5 for daily running with gps navigation? + DC Rainmaker
Just what I needed to properly use custom routes in navigation within the cycling app. Thanks!
Today I did my first ride on a new course in an unknown location using the Fenix 5 as a navigation device.
Great review of features! Clean and tight video! I'm wailing between 5 sapphire and 5x, mostly since they are really close in price im leaning towards 5x so i get the maps (though i think the 5x might be too big for my small wrists :O). Really interesting to see that the regular 5 has some navigational features that you showed in the video though! Might have to revaluate... again!
Thanks for the great review. Just a quick question: do the various outputs (e.g. speed, distance, altitude, pressure, etc.) have units attached to them, or just the numerical value? Thx!
The software of my fenix 5 freezes when using navigation on longer rides, and the only way our is an Hard Reset. Disapointing... any similar experience?
request: how well does 5x hold to a course it's navigating? can it effectively serve as a navigational tool with navigating streets/trails where tall buildings, trees, and walls of rock obscure sky? how does 5x compare with predecessors and competitors?
Is the navigation on all the Fenix 5's? Or just the 5x that has Topo mapping?
If you talk for Fenix 5 X and navigations and maps, change your title.
Just what I needed to properly use custom routes in navigation within the cycling app. Thanks!
Today I did my first ride on a new course in an unknown location using the Fenix 5 as a navigation device.
Great review of features! Clean and tight video! I'm wailing between 5 sapphire and 5x, mostly since they are really close in price im leaning towards 5x so i get the maps (though i think the 5x might be too big for my small wrists :O). Really interesting to see that the regular 5 has some navigational features that you showed in the video though! Might have to revaluate... again!
Thanks for the great review. Just a quick question: do the various outputs (e.g. speed, distance, altitude, pressure, etc.) have units attached to them, or just the numerical value? Thx!
The software of my fenix 5 freezes when using navigation on longer rides, and the only way our is an Hard Reset. Disapointing... any similar experience?