It looks very appealing to me i must say! Like that you're so in-depth and thorough with everything. Great job!
Great  video, as always.
Great review brother, do it have music storage?
Thank you for the review :) is the watch compatible with garmin coach?
Actually, Fenix 6 is already out there in the market? Any plans to make a review on it? As it's quite interesting to compare them with Fenix 5+
Thanks for the review. Actually, I have got Fenix 5+. How does it go against Garmin Fenix 5s? What do you think?
Garmin Fenix 7 in the coming future? It's the first time I hear it? Any insights on the time when on the market and price range?
5S  or fenix 3HR ?
Replaced my Apple Watch 2 for this beast I hope it delivers. All the updates made the Apple Watch obsolete in 2020
Can you answer calls on this watch
The Garmin Pay app doesn't work in the U.K. Doesn't even take MasterCard!
What do you think to Garmin's "Power Screen" technology?
Thanks for the review! it's always good for me to see these reviews on the smaller sized watches. Since I have a thin wrist it helps me gauge how it may look on me.
One of the best videoclip reviews I’ve viewed . Thanks for sharing
Best review I’ve seen for this watch. 👍🏻
What a great video, mate! 100% what I was looking for! Cheers
Awesome review , helped me with my 5plus upgrade .
Great review. Thanks. I actually have th 6 pro solar but its so feature packed that one I got beyond the basics I visit videos like this just to build my knowledge on different features that I may use occasionally. This video was really useful for that.
Exactly the information I was looking for, brilliant review. You got my 👍 thanks man.
Dude this is like an amazingly clear and super high quality video. I love it. I'm a huge Garmin fan and I'm trying to get my hands on one of these.
Thanks for the fantastic review... just ordered my upgrade from the Fenix 5s :)
Great video, top quality production 👌🏻
Perfect review! 🙏🏾 thank you
Awesome review, to the point and you listed the Pro's and Cons nicely thanks Mate
Great review ! I’ll be ordering one soon !
Actually this review was better than 99% of other smart watch "reviews" blabbing about pay with your smartwatch nonsense. I need outdoor, sports function! So many important informations in this review. Thank you.
GREAT review!
Good job man !!!
awesome review!

you have me sold.

1:23 which bike is that?
Thanks, very informative video! Regarding "the bad side" (8:08) to strapping the watch on the bike, i.e., not getting heart rate, there's a solution: wear a chest strap HR monitor. It can report to the watch.
Awesome review,  just got this watch, helped me figure it out!!  Thanks
Very neat beard man 👍
I am proper lusting after this watch 😍
For features, battery, and overall durability I found the Fenix 6 (Pro) Sapphire best. It was actually the sapphire screen with it's "true blacks" that sealed the deal, as I'd originally ordered a 6s Sapphire (Pro) and returned it when it arrived with a "blue screen". Instead of a full refund I said I wanted to pay the difference to get the 6 Sapphire and I couldn't be happier. I absolutely LOVE this watch and I'm really pleased I made myself upgrade instead of refund. I was SO disappointed when that screen lit up blue instead of black. I'd assumed all Sapphire model watches had the "true black" screen, but not the 6s Sapphire. Huge deal-breaker.
I hope they've fixed the issue now, because I made it known when upgrading that other than the screen I would have been perfectly happy. It's a really smart looking watch in black. 👌
Great review, definitely thinking about replacing my iWatch.
thanks great review
Thank you! :)
Thank You very informarmative🤓
Great review thanks , just wondering can this version have preloaded music or audible books?
What a watch!! These things are really moving forward. Garmin is doing really good with invitation
Oh I see it does 👍
Nice video, gr8 review, love this watch i have the fenix 5s and I'm tempted to upgrade for the solar capabilities. One thing i noticed they used springbars now instead of screw in bars like in my 5s... 🤔 Not sure if thats an improved feature or not.
The Fenix 6 series is the king of activity trackers. From the amazing build quality to its ability to track a wide range of activities.  I love it!
Hi the best review of this watch I've seen, thanks alot!  Just a quickie, which watch face is that, looks great!  Thanks
👍 thanks
Oswm video bro
great review and definitely pushed me to  buy . Even though  the solar does nothing for me but seems to have a few extra small extra features but in my opinion  it looks better. I have gotten bored with black fitness trackers how would you rate this shale grey colour? also do u think  it would mix well with other colour bands ?
Great review. Quick question, do you get the blue-ish screen issue? Like the backlit got washed out, quite a few reported but only in sapphire version I think
Hi, great review! What version as re you using in the review. I.e. what colour watch and band? Thanks
Looks great, and I'm considering buying the watch. But curious about the swimming features. Did you test it for pool swimming?

I have the polar V800 now, so this would be a big upgrade.
sei molto bravo
Hey I really like your video! I just have quick question: I was just about to hit the buy button on the 6s pro solar when I accidentally saw that it's 14.2 mm thick (vs 13.8mm for the 6s pro). Is this due to the solar panel and doesn't that make the watch even bulkier than the 6s pro?
I am going to get me one for this year
Great review! Is there a difference between the 6S Solar & 6S Sapphire (other than the solar)? Same 42"mm etc?
Thinking about upgrading my Forerunner 235 (about 5 years old at this point 😳) to this one! I might have to relearn all the fancy new updates since my current one doesn’t have half these features!!
Hi! Nice channel, i´ve just subscribe. I´m wondering here which make more sense in overall this one or a 955 solar?
Thank you for the good review. Question: if the battery is completely drained can I use the solar power only to charge the watch without the power cable and how long it's going to take to get enough power and use the watch again let's say for day or two? Thank you!
Thanks for the great review! do you find the 6s to be as comfortable during activity/sleep as the forerunner 945/745? I'm debating between the 6s sapphire and the forerunners.
I have Vivoactive 4 and can't decide on upgrade
Hey guys, does the 6s pro solar have surfing on the sports list? Great video, if it has surfing I’m sold!
it a very good watch
Sorry, great review but I couldn't help raising an eyebrow when you said it transfers 100% of the sun's energy into the battery :D
Not sure if you are aware... Garmin offers bike handle bar mounts for some of their watches... not sure which models though...
Great watch and almost perfect. Just don't understand why they would waste space with a compass on the bezel that could have easily been etched into a much wider photovoltaic bezel instead.
Hello mate, thanks for a good review. May i ask a few follow up questions ? 
Im thinking of getting a Garmin 6x pro for hiking, but i was wondering if it can be recharged by a power bank, and does it take long to recharge , do it require a lot of power to refill.
Great review. I have owned the 5s for just over a year, would you recommend an upgrade to the 6s?
I’m looking to replace wearing both an Apple Watch and a Whoop and think this might be the one. Are you familiar with the Whoop and would you say this is comparable and would work well by replacing both wearables?
Is a really good watch! Battery rated for 4 days but i used it for almost 7 days w out recharging but it got some cons like i wish it focus on counting steps cause when i dont bike thats what i focus on. Samsung does this count steps perfectly
I am switching from the Apple Watch 5 to either the Instinct Solar or the Fenix 6s Pro (solar), which one do you recommend me? And if I chose the Fenix, is the solar edition really worth it?
Can I also ask, as clearly you like your mtb, what is the best widget to use for following routes and finding good trails?  Is it possible to bluetooth to some headphones directions or get the garmin to talk instead, wouldn't need to look at the watch then.  I've been using Trailforks with a garmin edge but just bought this solar watch, will sell the computer now.  In the end my iphone with komoot was best for navigation but rubbish at finding trails, there doesn't seem a perfect solution to find techy trails
When do u think is the fenix 7 coming out bruv?
To your comment about attaching the watch to your bike’s handlebars but having to do without heart rate monitoring. You could wear a chest strap and monitor you HR that way, correct? Or were you saying that if the user is in the turn by turn map mode that they just wouldn’t be able to see their HR? Thanks, in advance.
Hi I’m considering getting either the Fenix 6 or 6s but not sure which one would look better on my wrist. I have relatively slim wrists at 16.5cm. I noticed the 6s looks kind of small on your wrist so was wondering what size wrists you have? Thanks.
You said about expeditions what at day walkers ? Does it count steps ? Does it come with maps ?
Does it have golf courses on it
Does it have timer ? Countdown timer? I couldn't find it.
may I ask what is your wrist circumference? (I am trying to decide if  6s or 6 is better for me (with 17cm wrist)
Have owned this almost a year and love it except for a couple of huge frustrations.

1) I got the Titanium one and that was a huge mistake because it scratches really easily..  I wear it 'full time' and very active... this is not the model to get for active people... I'm starting to feel embarrassed when I go out because at this point the watch looks like trash ( still works great but scratched bracelet and bezel ) 

2) when I ride my bike I have several connected devices... I have a power meter,  my headset for music, my phone , and HR monitor and Garmin radar ( Varia ) . Ever since I added the Varia I can no longer listen to music and have the Radar connected at the same time.   This is annoying as hell considering i paid 1K for this gadget. This is clearly a known issue form garmin since this is a well documented issue that lots of folks are reporting.. unfortunately there is no fix to be found. 

Overall I love this device and the Garmin ecosystem, but for 1K i expected a more rugged watch.
Hello, I’m Raka from Indonesia. Is still worth to buy this sport watch in 2023? I hope your answer to help me. Thankyou!
What could be different btn Sunto7,9's GPS vs Garmin 6x Gps..? And Sunto gives more battery time with GPS👀👀
Is this the very latest Fenix? when was it released?
Great watch!.... for my wife’s wrist
Does it have a storm alert function?
How is the bluetooth connection when you use bluetooth headset?
I have a question, does it comes with an inbuilt mic so that we can receive incoming calls. 

Also can we reply to the notifications here?
I've just bought a instinct from wiggle Garmin are offline bit of bad timing 🙃
I just looked at the price and got a fright :-) I'll look at the others
Will this link up to Polar cadence and speed sensors on my racing bike?
Having a hard time to choose between the 6s solar and 6s pro solar. What do u think ?
I will wait for the Fenix 7 which will probably has a touchscreen and ECG.
I have the 6x pro Saphire one. In My opinion a Sports Watch Needs Saphire glass 🙂
is there any way you go on an expedition or hiking adventure where the activity takes longer than 80 days to turn off the watch completely and just wear the watch and charge it? maybe attach the watch to your pack and let the sun charge it to full status. if so im sold on this item. otherwise how can i use it when im lost and the watch died. at least there could be a way to charge and revive this.
Is it touch screen? Or do you have to use the buttons on the side to select everything?
Does the 6s Pro Solar comes in black? Most of what I saw sold on REI, Best Buy, and Amazon in the U.S. are grayish. The face also says "Women of Adventure" (I'm assuming this can be changed.)
is the solar charging really effective?
how is your light on your solar? mine looks like it doesn't work!
I just received my fenix 6 pro solar, whats the big difference between the 6s pro solar?
What colourway is this
Yep and yep,
Is this the smallest version 42mm?
The app & watch face slot limit must be removed. It isn't perfect by any means, but is among the best in class: considerably better (and much pricier!) than its predecessors. 
  For those wondering, a screen protector does not appear to affect the solar charge. 
 Garmin Express will indicate that updates are due and may take a hundred syncs, updates, disconnects and reconnects to change the status to "up-to-date". Very clunky. 
 Ski maps (and I believe, Golf courses) can be deactivated if unneeded. But that's not good enough for Me. I wish they could be removed altogether to empty storage. 
 It's also rather unclear what the differences between the pre-installed maps and Garmin's City Navigator and Cycle Maps are, and whether City Navigator & Cycle Maps can be installed on the device. I haven't tried, as I have not the maps in question.
Thinking about to choose this one, but got the feeling that the colour is a bit purple?! Or is it more grey? Theres no Chance to see  it in real here, so someone might help? Would be Great!
are
 u still using 6s or 7s?? small size? I got 6inch wrist, still deciding
How does it compare to Fenix 6 Pro Solar? Just size?
Is the hart rate as good as using chest strap monitor
I bought this watch recently...
 After first charge with a USB cable on the screen I got notification : 9d ( nine days battery life).
   Next day I placed it under the sun to charge it from sun energy but nothing had changed - still 9 days of battery life remained. 
 What benefits the sollar charging has if battery life is not changing ?
which watch is preferally for health alerts
Hi , Recently we lost famous person during his workouts with heartatack. Is this watch help people to avoid or give alerts . In what type of watches will give this type of alerts so that it will help every one
Are Garmin better than Casio ,thanks
Nearly 13 minutes, you never actually tested whether the solar actually charges the watch or not. If one pays a premium for solar charging, i would like to know if it solar charges? How fast? In what conditions? Or is it so minimal you could tell it actually charges at all?
Does a screen protector mess with the solar ?
Ive got quite small wrists so is there a risk of this looking to big?
Does no one find it strange that none of garmins high end rugged watches have a touchscreen?
Does it trake your sleep
Sorry if I missed it: does it have a touch screen?
does it have temperature sensor ?
What would you choose: Fenix 6S Sapphire or 6S Pro Solar?
Is garmin smart watches 4g? LTE? Like iWatch. And write mails and make phone calls? Without having my phone on me
How long to charge 0 to 100 from solar ?
So no fenix 7?
Do Garmin watches have touchscreen?
Is this line of their brand watches salt water proof?
Garmin fenix is not actually a watch. Its a tool that looks like a watch
I love this, but it expensive for me :D
I'd love a camera built in. 1080 not a selfie camera I mean a real proper camera
Hehe bad timing, Garmin being hacked on the day this video was released... 😅
Where is it made in? China??
TEdious reviewer.
I have my eye on a 6s Pro Solar with Slate Grey strap for £480. Bit worried that the 6s strap won't fit my wrist, as it looks like it is aimed at women. Anyone have issues?
Im still waiting for the most important Feature ,That gives me a 3 minute warning,when im going to have a Heart Attack,and Direct me to the Nearest Defibrillator ,Man the person that comes up with that,is going to be Seriously rich 🤑
I accidentally buy that since fenix 6 and 6x is to big for me.
By god, I have this, and I have to say.. it was so beautiful if you look it for yourself rather than in video. The gold is for the girl, but the gray one.. definitely for a male. 👍
Don’t reply to me and say I’m being a mean person I’m just curious 
I don’t know if it is just me but is your left eye looking right and your right eye is facing the camera
Solar is a gimmick, you're better off investing in the Saphire version...at least you'll have some use for it.
So you pay £740 and don’t even get the DLC coating on the bezel or Sapphire glass which you get on the cheaper model? No thanks. And the battery life on the 6S is already good enough for 95% of people, unless you’re planning an expedition to Everest and really need that extra 1% per hour (in which case you would probably have a USB power bank with you anyway). I have the 6S Sapphire and did a 125 mile bike ride once and still had 50% battery left...
1:38 100% photovoltaic doesn't mean that it will convert 100% sun energy into power. There are no panels that has 100% efficiency. Most of the sun energy is reflected. Only small amount is turned into electric power. 100% photovoltaic means nothing more than 100% photovoltaic. Real photovoltaic efficiency is around 30%, any other number is only marketing :P.
Will this work on a tattoo?
Over 700 quid! Wtf
I checked for this watch but says for women ?
Expensive watch for a short life span .
Screen display really sucks
Is this color too feminine looking?  Can a guy pull it off?
Just be aware that is just BS and gimmicky  ! Just buy a normal fenix and save money  ! Those endorsers are paid to talk and overhype those watches  ! Just do your own research about and visit the Garmin Fenix  6 forum to see for yourself about how faulty and unreliable data those watches provide  !
There great until they break! GARMIN HAS THE WORST CUSTOMER SERVICE! BUY A DIFFERENT PRODUCT AND SPARE YOURSELF SOME GRIEF!
Hey James! Great video. I am considering picking this up but have 2 questions:
1. Does this model have the same "bluish tint" backlighting display issue as the other 6S and 6S Sapphire have?
2. Does the Amethyst steel look very purple in person? Wish they had solar in black :/ Worried this will be too purple but hard to tell.
Thanks in advance!
That's my boy! I love all tech, and product reviews, great job dude!! Looking forward to future nerd videos as you expand your everyday carry
just purchased one of these second hand after this review! cheers mate
Hey Vince, I haven't invested in a smart watch/GPS watch yet, Nice review.
Also, nice gains bro!  You have bulked up since running 100 miles. Keep inspiring us!
Thats what I'm talking about right there! Great review Vince. A solid watch especially for the price. The newer watches have way too many metrics that many people don't understand or even need. I know many runners that are happy with that watch.
Thanks for the detailed review! I was little bit confused between Forerunner 235 & Vivoactive 3. Nw am clear , will go with Forerunner 235.
an accurate gps is the main thing! I love the heart rate data though haha. Good video my man
Nice review! I am new to the running watch hunt. This video helped me make a decision!
Bro the review was great ! You are doing really go getting out of the norm! This is good man, going to go into more growth lets goooooo!
Thank you! I've been debating whether to forgot my iWatch for this Garmin.
Great review on this watch! Accurate GPS is key! I don't do a lot of running but I really want to pick up a fitness watch for the gym. The gyms in New York are finally opening tomorrow. Great video and review bro!
Great review Vince! 👊🏾🔥💯
Thank you, great reveiw!
Thanks for your great review, I just bought it two days ago and I have gone on a run yesterday and on a bike ride today and it works very well. I had an older forerunner 410 for doing both sports and a separate smart watch and wanted to get something better without spending much. I would have loved to hear how much you paid for it. I paid $65 USD for it, and I am finding it an excellent value for money, it is my only watch now. I downloaded a custom screen and it is just perfect for me.  I have the chest strap already, so I normally use it for both sports. I am glad to hear that the heart rate sensors with the watch are not very accurate. The sleep tracker seems to work well too. I have the smart notifications on, and it works quite well, what I don't find is an easy way of deleting them all at once without having to go clearing one by one.  If someone knows, please let me know.
Love the reviews
Excellent review sir!
Great review, I love my Garmin 235. 
Does the job perfectly, had for 3yrs😁
the watch is top for the price. durable also, I wear mine daily now for two years, use it running, cycling, walking, working still works perfect.
thanks for info

is there any difference between this and the 245 besides more screen space?
Thanks Vince 👍🙂🏃‍♂️.   Perfect watch for me 👍 to buy
Great review, great watch.
I own a 920xt, garmin is super accurate when it comes to gps, I have a chest strap although not practical it’s accurate.
Really like the walkthrough you had done of the watch
I got that watch to it’s realy amazing for running
clear thoughts, clear explanations. keep up man. i am about to get it for the gps a d strava compatibility too. my current mi watch does not sometimes gets to strava.
So what's a good alternative for around the same price? Just looking for something with a better heart rate monitor I guess.
I didn’t know you do reviews! Great content always
Still rockin my 230, it’s survived countless Spartan, OCR and trail runs. Mud, rain, lakes. Good watch.
I am loving my Garmin so far, It does feel cheaply made and I was hoping it was touch screen, but now that I have adjusted I love it.  Only down fall I really had was that Garmin stopped working a day after I bought it
It would help if you state in the descrip or title - when was this watch introduced? (released)
The Sasuke picture in the back!! But this was a solid review Vince -- I wore a FitBit for a long time but didn't love it, and I always heard pretty good things about Garmin products. Facebook Marketplace is definitely a go-to to get things on sale too, because nobody can complain about saving some money 😂😂 I realized I forgot to post on yesterday's video, but we still want to see your blonde phase at some point and see those blonde / eyebrow piercing pictures!! CC: @dandi.bambi
This same model I have been using it for almost 7 years now and I have done over 300 miles with it and it still strong. Of course the HR goes up and down so I use a chest strap. Other than that this watch had been a badass still looks new and works good.
Good review Vince, looks like a awesome watch, my last watch was a Garmin vivoactive3 found it really good to use, the heart rate seem to work better, when done up pretty tight ya wrist, after 2 years the battery didn’t hold a charge, really liked the Garmin, it even had pay wave was handy, could pay for stuff from the watch, I did a bit of research found that the Coros Apex 46mm has amazing battery life, like a month before ya have to charge it, they are designed for 100miler ultras & still have plenty of battery, so it should be ok for my little 30k runs, so far is very good value 😁👍
Solid product review man 👍 concise and very helpful . How much did you pay for it used?
I think the 235 is the perfect everyday runners watch. Not needed for someone starting; but someone who wants to make running part of their lifestyle. It’s such a great bang for buck. Only reason I updated was I had such a great deal and for “future thinking”. Pretty sure you can change the other screens too. The workouts have been key for my Mara training plan!! Great review man! I’ll be getting back to you on the HR. Soon. Going to give it a couple weeks to get some “good baseline data” I mention this in my next video coming; so hope to have it in my week 13 video. #youtheman
I'm about to get this watch second hand too like you. Hope it's good. Have you ever had issues with it not syncing your runs to garmin connect? I'm assuming not since you didn't say it in the video
you are a very likeable guy, great video!
Hi does it simultaneously show the 4 data fields
Time
Distance
Current Pace
Average pace

Thanks
D
Vince not big on running but that watch sound pretty good I have like the first year fitbit for men and I do noticew when I use the gps and just it reading the steps I take and all it seems to be off and by a lot at times so I might consider getting this garmin. Thanks for you insight and review on it. 👍💯
I have had my 235 for more than 3 years. It does everything that I need with none of the gimmicks. 
The battery life is still great even after a couple years. It has enough juice for any single-day activities I have thrown at it, but not enough if you want to track a multi-day backpacking trip, for example.
 I find the heart rate actually works pretty well (and was one of my reasons for getting _this_ watch). You do, however, have to go quite tight on the watch strap. When I'm doing a workout, I'll go one notch tighter than normal to get accurate heart rate - it's a tad uncomfortable at first but you get used to it quickly.
Honestly, the only thing I _don't_ like is the charging clip. Not the connection itself - that I think is solid - but I have left the cable in more hotel rooms than I can count, and getting a replacement is not easy 🙄
It’s my favorite watch because it’s my only watch 😂
Bro the review was great.you are doing really go getting out of the norm
This is a must tool for anybody who is into running like you. It pretty much does everything. Do you wear it all the time or only when you're about to workout? I'm definitely looking to an everyday watch with features like you said, that I can also wear throughout the day.
Here's one for the algorithm haha.. not a runner and not really in the market for a fitness watch, but interesting to hear your thoughts
Hi, is itnworth buying one still looking to get a second hand one
Thinking of switching to this one over a Fitbit charge 4. I’ve gotten into longer runs (my max used to be 10k, but I’m training for 15k and half marathons now) and the Fitbit just can’t hold a long enough charge.
Nice Vince!
Excited to get mine! Just ordered. I want to use my tools... not have my tools use me. The more bells and whistles- the more distracting it gets.
Ur awesome 💙
This was an awesome review! 

So if i am going to run maybe a 5k every other day and bike also would you recommend getting this watch?

Thanks anyway!

edit:this watch is strava compatible right?
Put it on. Looks huge!
can you upload a track on the watch and then run it?
I used to have the Garmin 230, then the Garmin Instinct.  Sold it and switched to a Coros Apex. I LOVE my Coros.  Have you heard of Coros?
I used to have a fitbit but I wasn't great at monitoring my results. I gave it to my youngest daughter who is getting far more out of it than I ever did.
Hey bro normally when you run do you use the gps(normal) or the gps+glonass? I tried using both and it makes no difference when I run
Can set this watch to permanently show my heart rate whilst on a 2-3 hour run ?
Beast mode
Great informative video, thanks a lot! Is this watch only for running though? What if I wanted to cycle or do the elliptical can you change activities on it?
Will this sinc up to map my run? My dad is looking to upgrade his original fitbit to this and that is a big thing fitbit did
great content sir. a worth watching and subbing channel :)
Will a chest strap monitor like polar h10 connect to this watch ?
Now this is MY kinda video haha, always trying to find out more about what other smartwatches have to offer. I think the price isn't bad for what it seems to offer... I hope you've checked out my smartwatches as well ;) Good video and nice breakdown man!
Ciao e complimenti, conviene il 235 o il 45? grazie
I still use it after 4 years.
Will this accept audiobooks that have been put into mp3
Can I connect AirPods to it, to listen to music while running without my phone?
how much did he pay for it?
I race in Duathlons (run, bike, run).  I need a watch that will record my first run, then record my second run separately.  Most importantly, I don't want to be fussing around with saving the first run and getting the watch ready to record the second run.  Does anybody know how I can accomplish these recordings with relative ease?
If you have the gps, does your phone need to be near you?
My phone GPS broke on my last cell phone and I got some interesting maps when running. 🤣
Heart rate is wack* I have found HR monitor to be very polarized. Buy the screen protection. I've had lots of falls on trails and its held up well.  GPS is responsive and Accurate. I love the custom face and utilize Peter Pacer Single Fields.
Oh wow! I can't believe it reads your heart rate at 30. That must have been scary the first time you saw that -- you'd basically be dead. hahaha. Thanks for the tips!
What about swimming? I surf, and hate taking my watch on and off
whether the garminforerunner 235 is waterproof ?
Here we go!!! Love these topic videos and reviews. Had a Fitbit since 2013, but have been seeing how awesome the new Garmin Fenix watches are and getting very tempted.

PS: I thought you’d lost the sea foam teal blue color as the first top thing you didn’t like about the watch. 😂
Can you swim with it?
Nice watch bro..enjoy vlogging. thank you for sharing. i'm your new friend. Pls. stay in touch..
If one is training and active, a watch that one would want is a wide plastic watch. this is for sure.
Nice and clear review. I was about to buy a used one from marketplace but I would like it to have a touch screen and it does not have an option for trail running and soccer that I do. Plus, it is a 2015 model.
Maybe a brand new Huawei GT2e at the same cost would be a better idea.
Good review. Hand gestures a bit much.
16mgn..new frnd here..❤❤❤
Dawg stop shaking that watch in my face
This watch has 500 more miles after this video..😂
Very confusing video. I can't tell which buttons you are pushing. Its too fast.
Hey folks - thanks for watching! Don't forget to hit up the full review with all the accuracy and related testing here: https://dcra.in/Fenix6
This is a guy who has a job he loves and doesn't take it for granted. Thanks for the hours and hours of work to provide in depth reviews so we don't waste money on products that don't meet our priorities.
Boom, done. Absolutely no need to look elsewhere for a fenix 6 review. This was totally perfect. Thanks dude.
WOW! That speedtalking class really paid off.
Just ordered Pro 6. Love the scenery where you are. I'm former 5,10k and marathon runner ( low 2:20's ) now 66 yrs old so the larger screen and metrics will keep interest up. I have two bulging duscs but running slower is less painful than walkiing. Great video!
Looking forward to the nacho cheese dispenser.
I've been wanting solar on the Fenix/Tactix models for a couple years now. Glad to see that they have started implementing it.
The best written review I’ve ever read! Thanks for the hard work 👍🏻👍🏻
Thank you for this, went out and got one after watching this and couldn't be happier - thanks!
You consistently do the best objective and most complete reviews! Most reviewers would completely miss the nacho cheese dispenser...and their review would be substandard because of it. Thank you!
Nice Review! I really dig the "Pace Pro" feature on the Fenix 6. Unfortunately I've discovered that it's limited to 14:00 miles as a maximum pace. This is fine for most Marathon runners but once you get into Ultra marathons up to 100 miles in length only a small percentage of ultra runners are running that kind of pace. Most are in the 16-20 minute/mile range. I hope garmin can update this feature in Garmin Connect!
Dude, you are absolutely the BEST reviewer in the world and I hope you actually make money from all this hard work!  I am not a sports buff by any means, although I've done a few adventure races, climbed Mt. Kilimanjaro, done Santiago de Compostela's Way by bike, etc. but all for leisure ... I have always been a fan of Suunto and I not only love watching your reviews but also have recommended them to a lot of friends whoa are more "athletes" than me. THANK YOU and keep up the outstanding work!!
Your reviews are always the best (bought Tacx Neo then Neo 2, Fenix 3, Fenix 5 and now 6 Pro). Superb job !
Thanks for this mega in depth review! The most informative one I've seen yet!
Great review. Gonna exchange my 5x to the new 6x. The lost space on the big bezel always bugged me.
You're an amazing reviewer! That's all I can say. Thank you and keep the good work!
Dude, you are awsome! Thanks a million for this and your website, it's where I check first before buying new gear . Awesome!
Solid video!  Thanks!
Thanks to your video I sold my Fenix 3 and finally upgraded. I was pretty happy with the Fenix 3 but the enhanced mapping, health metrics, and improved battery life really won me over. 

Went with the Fenix 6 Sapphire this time around 🤙
Thanks dude. Learned a lot today. I have the 5s and recently won a MARQ athlete, a lot of the features on the 6 series also apply to my watches.
Ray, after all these years... you're still the best. Thanks for having high quality reviews that are based off real analysis of product and function. Do you think there's going to be any impact to longevity/quality of battery life in the 6x solar w/constant solar charging?
14:15 'just seeing if your're reading' -> Yes ^^
Great video! I have the Fenix 5X and have been waiting to see what the upgrades are. The solar power looks super intriguing. I hope this is something they really do continue to develop in a big way.
Thank you Mr Rainmaker, you’ve done a great job explaining about this watch, ai have just purchased one and this video comes very handy, much easier than reading the manual… many thanks.

Maz
Great review, concise and no fluff. How refreshing, much better than a lot of reviewers.
You are good at this. Congrats for the channel!
This was so detailed.  Thank you
Thanks for the reviews, I got a Forerunner through your site based on your reviews.  Best in the business
Great review, once again. 
I listened to you back in 2017 when I saved all my gold pennies to buy a Fenix 5X...
And now I am rather tempted by the 6X solar... or the Tactix!... 🤣 
Can't wait for Christmas !!!... 🥳
THANK YOU. 
Stay safe. 👍🏻
Great review as always, complex topic in a quick review. I’ll read the full review tonight. First impression is that Garmin is getting way pricey. Their base model Fenix, which is now the Pro, is $700! What they are calling their base is really the same as their high end running watches, but with the Fenix look. I am waiting for someone to change the market by providing a 200-300ish dollar watch with maps, music, training, open water swim, power meter connectivity and multi-sport mode. There is no reason that couldn’t be done except for some unwritten agreement that all these things are only in “high end” watches. Someone needs to break the cabal.
Good job. Thank you. Because of your review I bought one I’ll get it on Monday. 🌴🤙🏽🌺
The expedition feature will be great for mountaineering! For an example, a permit for Aconcagua lasts three weeks (and I will probably spend two weeks acclimatizing) so not having to bring an additional charger is super convenient.
You are a great content creator. We learn very useful and detailed information on the web page or on the youtube channel. I am very grateful for that.
Thank you so much for the video! I love all your reviews and especially the in-depth reviews helps me while deciding which clock to take :)
I own a fenix 5 and i still like it, i won't upgrade because of the pricetag but still i enjoy watching your reviews. You are doing an incredible job. Thanks!
Well prepared review with a sufficient amount of data for us, well done.🙏🙏
Dude, beautiful nature in the background!
Question for you...does the step counter remain accurate when using trekking poles? I've been amazed at how few watches do.
Nacho cheese... definitely need to upgrade from my 3HR
I originally got a samsung watch 4 classic and wasn't feeling it because of the battery life and size. I went back to best buy and got myself a Fenix 6x Pro Solar. It's worth every dollar. I'm so in love with it I cannot complain for the price. I just love that I'm going to get weeks of power before I have to recharge it.
I love your Garmin reviews!!! Great videos and website!!! When is the Garmin Fenix 6 Pro review coming?
Any idea the scratch resistance of the sapphire vs gorilla glass that is in the solar versions?  I'm thinking about getting a 6x plus solar titanium and was wondering about the scratch resistance of the gorilla glass.  Also, any idea if a screen protector would interfere with the solar capabilities of the glass?  Thanks in advance!
Ray, could you inform me on the scratch resistency-durability differences between sapphire and other glass editions? How big of a difference is it?
Great review as always! Thanks!
Love my Fenix 5x have no complaints about it, but once the price drops on the solar model  a little I’ll be buying that
Great video. Is it worth upgrading from my Fenix 3 yet? I'm not really limited by the 3 at all. But it would be nice to have something faster with legit storage on it.
can't wait to see some of this on a vivoactive 4
A thorough and impressive review!! Thanks!
Really good review man, keep it up!
Throughout the most of video I was sure my old Garmin5 is good enough, but the Nacho Cheese Dispenser changed my mind!
I'm not sure if you know the mtb youtuber Skills with Phill, but you two speak almost with the EXACT same tone and intonation :) Great work as always, love your in depth videos!
As always, very informative videos and the super-in-depth review. Thanks for doing what you do and keeping the rest of us updated on all this tech!
You have made me realise I would use 4% of the features, but looks great
Great review! But my F5+ has already so many features I don't need or use, why pay more for more things I don't use? E.g. popularity routing leads me along main roads although I live in the woods, or the navigation, which I used only to try it out. What I need is navigation along a pre-defined track, the maps, accurate GPS and flawless connection to the sensors, the rest is nice or even useless!
Super solid review.  Thank you sir!
I get a strange amount of satisfaction delving into something I know I could never afford (735xt is as high as I managed), but one simply cannot pass a milestone DC Rainmaker review. :)
Love my Fenix 2. Awesome for triathlons. Maybe the 5s will go on sale now 😁
Hi Ray, nice review ! are the increased data fields coming to the 945 ? Thanks !
Nice video, I just bought my fenix 5, 3 days ago because it had a big discount and I'm glad I bought it because it still has everything I need with a bargain price. Thanks to the fenix 6.
The video been very helpful ... but give us your advice we should go for Fenix 6  or the marq edition ... if were you what u will choose ... thanks
14:21 added nacho cheese dispenser, awesome! Hahahaha nice video man!
Gonna buy it just for the nacho cheese dispenser! Take My money Garmin
Great work! Just need to work out in the next few days which one to get 😎
waiting for a swim run in open water, i really interested to accuracy of this watch vs the Apple Watch 4 that was way better than the garmin 5 during your test
A great review, as ever.  Fantastic location.  Watch is looking good.   Maybe it’s time to upgrade from my Fenix 3 HR.  That’s the watch sorted, now can I have your life?
I'm gonna bet that the Expedition Mode will be a huge hit with the military persons. That's the sole reason that I'm considering this over the 5x
Great video. Massively helpful. Thanks
Thanks for big effort and great work
I was waiting for cheese dispenser from fenix 2. Finaly it here.
Great information.  I am hoping this brings down the price of the 5 plus.
Thanks for so detailed review, although I am not native English speaker, but your full review really helps me before buying these watches.
Great review thanks
Thanks man, great video, as usual. This new garmin is impressive, but I am afraid I will wait a little, so the price decrease a little. I took advantage of a discount price to get my most recent Fenix 5 Plus. ;)
Garmin has finally, truly, jumped the shark with this. Thanks for the review, I'm good.
Great review as always. I have just placed an order for Garmin 6. Sapphire because it is half price deal at the moment in Australia.
Expedition mode looks awesome, I think people do actually use it. Thats what I need for when I do a 3 week trip into the mountains, my battery pack won't last that long
Nice insight as always Ray. Great to see some detail on the new features. Particular the Nacho cheese machine! Does that add extra weight?
Exempt for the solar feature am staying with 5 plus
Thank u for your work. Awesome.
Great review, thanks!
Still really think a Seiko Kinetik style charging would make the most sense for watches for running and hiking. In the winter I always have the watch under my clothing to save battery and avoid cooling the wrist. So during the part of the year when topping up the battery is needed, solar won't help.
Haha, that subtitle on #8 (9:25)
What an awesome guy! Thanks for the review
Love all your tech watch reviews DC although I have only watched the ones for the watches I am purchasing. I was trying to decide between the F6 and F6 Solar. I just returned my Instinct Solar, it did have great battery life, but the display for me did matter somewhat and it's not pretty lol. So I went with the F6 Sapphire. Wasn't sure I needed the solar feature as I am not really a huge hiker. I have read that the display on the Sapphire is slightly more clear then the solar version, because the solar has that extra layer for catching rays, can you confirm this? Or deny, whichever, all good.
I can't wait to get my nacho cheese dispenser!!!!!!
Yes, "I am reading" :)
Thanks for the video.  I have 5s and absolutely don’t see any need to upgrade. It’s expensive and I think my 5s will at least last for another 5-7 years.
Was a nice one, thanks dude
They should have a solar wristband imo, tons of realestate
1:05 my epilepsy is activated
Such a great review! Thumbs up
how is screen response time compared to Fenix 5 series? it often was quite slow to respond, especially if you hadn't touched the buttons for a while
Changed playback speed to 0.75x. perfect.
I’ll stick to my fénix 3HR, the 5 was cool but didn’t really offer anything new. The 6 just cost too much and the base model is a downgrade. Honestly, the only thing on my wishlist is longer battery life. I’d like some software updates, I miss some features my Polar V-800 had.
Didn’t expect to be 2nd. Amazing review, was hoping for wireless charging but got solar charging instead not sure how I feel about that.
Incredibly review! I know it's been awhile since this review but do you recall, while tracking specifically hiking activities and having any discrepancies with the heart rate? I keep seeing issues on garmin forums and reddit about issues with the OHR while hiking specifically and it's concerning me that a (currently) $700 watch is unable to perform HR tracking on a hike.. thanks! Also the watch being mentioned is the Garmin Fenix 6X. I guess the other 6's have not had this issue?
Like and comment for the amount of effort put into your work 🤙
Still repping a Fremantle Tri Club hat!!
The NCD is what sold me on this (Nacho Cheese Dispenser)
Great review. If only this exact watch was a Casio g shock brand with added 20bar water resistance I’d buy it in a heartbeat
Can't wait to eat my cheese on that!
Folks I’m glad to introduce the Garmin Fenix 7x which now in addition to solar now has a kinetic dial in the back of the watch which rapidly charges your watch if you’re running 👏🏻 

Is it me, or has the progress of innovation since the original fenix 1 become quite boring beyond the fenix 3 HR?
Liked and subscribed.  You've been my 1-stop-shop in determining what to buy since you started your website.  Just now subscribed because I heard the "like and subscribe" comment around the 7m38s mark.  Would've subscribed sooner, but I didn't know you had a YouTube channel in addition to your website; both which are *very* well done!
"added nacho cheese despenser", I like it, good humor hahaha
Surprisingly it still can't toast bagels and clean dishes after cooking. Maybe with coming firmware update?
How many YEARS can I expect to get out of this watch under "normal" use; time, hiking, etc???
Awesome video, so comprehensive! Quick question, how much tougher is the Sapphire glass compared to the Solar glass for the 6X Pro?
Great video as always Sir. To your knowledge and experience how strong is the power glass vs the saphire glass since the solar watch only has power glass. I am concerned about damaging the screen when I am out and about being active. Mainly smacking into objects around me as I move and sometimes move quick. TIA
16 new things that you will never need but we put them in the watch anyway, because you know, we have to take your money somehow...
I would already be glad if it would count my pool laps correct -.- my fenix 3 sucks at it
As always, such a descriptively helpful review. However on given option which watch would you prefer personally for your training & fitness, "Polar Vantage V Titan" or "Garmin Fenix 6x Pro Solar"?  proviso when no strings are attached. Thanks!
"ALL THE ALPS"
A lot of this is strictly software related and should honestly be included in the prior Fènix line.
Thanks for hastening your speech in order to fit the review in! Lots of super good info. You earned a sub!
Awesome Ray, when Garmin said the new 945 features will not be coming to the Series 5 it was obvious a 6 was on it's way with these features
That sucks that they don’t offer sapphire with solar.
Nacho Dispenser? Yes, I'm reading this :)
EXCELLENT JOB WELL DONE 👏
Hey DC rainmaker. I've been watching and reading all your reviews about fenix 6 suunto 9 polar grit x (and coros) . They all are good watches. But can't see which one would be the most accurate in terms of purely GPS and data (specially for mountains activities and running) if we don't look at the rest they are offering. Any advise ? Thanks for your work
Good review but I don't see why anyone would buy this over the 5/5 plus. The added features are just kinda useless...
only just bought the Fenix 5x Plus. fuuck. Don't you just hate it when that happens?
Hey, thanks for great videos. I currently use a Wahoo Element when mountainbiking and an Apple Watch for everyday use for overall health and fitness. But, I have started looking at a Garmin Instinct or Garmin Fenix 6x to replace my wahoo and use as a training watch. Whats the pros and cons compared to my bike computer and Apple Watch? Cant decide which way to go… I really love my apple watch but miss some fitness functions.
Could you make a comparison between the new watch and the forerunner 645 music? I'm interested in activity tracking in particular.
Warning to anybody about to buy: Fenix 6 pro has VERY POOR accuracy even in moderate reception conditions. I mean you don't have to be in thick woods to experience this, for example -  even on a totally straight paved road, with trees on both side of the road, your running pace could be off by 10-20 sec per kilometer. This is not normal. Once you're on the clear though, it is as accurate as previous fenix line watches. I have compared it with having three different fenix watches at the same time (one on each arm + one in my hand), and with different settings (GPS alone, GPS+GLONASS, GPS+GALILEO); and of course, I'm using 1 sec as the measurement interval. (My son has exactly the same watch, and it has exactly the same accuracy issues, so it's not just my watch, that's broken)
Could you please slow down when you talking. It's  struggling for me to understand the device and hearing you talking and reading the text at the same time
Just a question, only the 51mm watch have the 8 data fields? For my wrist i think is a big watch so i'm thinking in the 47mm but like the 8data fields.
Always great reviews, would like to see compassion between MARQ, polar v , and this lineup.  How good is the Wrist HR on the new finex.  Thank you again.
The base model seems like a downgrade, $600 and it won't even show maps? Might as well get the instinct instead for $300
Pretty much Garmin is making customers confused. Way too many options. 

The solar option is 1000? Really garmin?
600 and you get no music maps or WiFi? 

What kind of lineup is this? 

How about including the heart rate strap or the tri strap? Or another stupid expensive $50 garmin watch strap?
Hello, sir thank you for amazing videos I've learned a lot from them I have one question I used to wear my watch Fenix 6 pro on my right wrist now I am wearing it on my left wrist, but I can't find anywhere to change it in strength section is there anything I can do I have no idea??? Many thanks, Farzad
Great review as always buddy, something I have wondered is just how scratch-proof IS the solar version? I mean based on the fact that if you own the 6X Pro Solar you are going to use it outdoors the majority of the time meaning it is going to be more susceptible to knocks and bangs etc I cannot understand why sapphire crystal was not used in that version? I find that just plain strange. Is the gorilla glass more resistant than the sapphire glass?
"just seeing if you're reading"
👀👀
You need to talk faster...
excellent review
Great overview of the new Fenix. I am reading ;)
Still 240px?? Underwhelming.
Slow down you’re almost impossible to understand!
Hey, this is a fantastic film, thank you. I have just bought a Fenix 6 Pro for general health and fitness tracking but I do not use a smartphone. Can I still use the majority of the watch features with Garmin Express and Garmin Connect on a Windows PC? I have done this with a Vivosmart 4 but I wondered if I could use the Fenix in the same way?
Great review
Have had the 3HR for some time now and never enough change for me to upgrade. Getting closer now. Also have the 1000 cycling head unit and have had the same upgrade hold pattern. Would love to see that next gen, would be good if it included solar.
Great review! Im looking at one n what do you suggest for me? Im a mountain biker walker n hiker? 

Thanks
Hi DC!  I have a question.  Will the PacePro come to older models?  I bought the fenix 5x Plus.  Spent some time looking for it and don't see it.  Just curious as to if you had any inside knowledge?
Hey there! Question for you. Between the Fenix 6 Pro and Apple Watch 6, which would say has the more accurate HR and GPS? Not a hard-core athlete, but these accuracies are important to me. Thank you!
Hi. Is it possible to still see the pace, heart rate ECT while you follow the GPS routes? Can you change between the "options" while running? I hope this makes sense
I got excited when I read about the nacho cheese dispenser,snap on runs yay! 😆
Then I read the just checking.... 😥
Farming needs to incorporate this feature.
vaaary comprehensive! Danke!
Just got 6x pro, monster of a watch!
I just ordered a 6X Sapphire, can’t wait to use the nacho cheese dispenser and auto pilot 😁
Good video. Thank you! Perhaps you could do a test from a runner's point of view regarding the distance measured by the fenix 6. There are reports in the Garmin forum that the 6 measures the wrong distance during the run. So on a staked route, the fenix probably does not show a distance of 1 km for some, but 50 meters less in each case. This falsifies the pace. Sure, a stryd can make up for that, but can you confirm this discrepancy? Allegedly, the fenix is ​​said to have recorded the distance too short even after the run. I would be happy about your experiences. A video would be great.
Your review makes me wanna buy it even if i don't need it
what battery should garmin 6 pro last for ? the standard pro version

also do you have a video on how to setup the watch and also change the pin button modes ?
Which model do you wear on each wrist at the beginning of the video?
Solid sharing.
👍
I love the New added nacho cheese dispenser. Great watch.
Wow, didn’t expect to see the Garmin Fenix 6 series out this early...I guess we can officially say/expect a new Fenix series every two years, with a “plus” model in between each of those years...

...also two year update cycle for the 945/745/645 etc

I like it...

Also, I can’t wait for all the new Garmin HRM chest straps with Bluetooth. Hopefully there is also a wrist band to compete with the Polar OH1+
Hi Ray, I wondered if you (or anyone else) knew of a way to extend the time the backlight comes on for when you press the light button on the Fenix 6? I've hunted all the menus and internet and cant find anything. Thanks
Hi Ray, big fan, thanks for all the reviews you’ve done over the years.  I’m looking at purchasing a Fenix 6x Sapphire now that the prices have dropped dramatically.  Are they still a good watch or is the tech now a bit dated? Appreciate your thoughts
Hello have you had a chance to test swim tracking accuracy - for both pool and open water swimming.
nice vids, thank you! bought a fenix 6 silver thanks to you :D
Will the estimated sweat loss feature be coming to the fenix and what other features are expected ?
Can you get the storm alerts while you record an activity like running?
@dcrainmaker did you said climb pro is available on the Garmin 1030?
Hi, thank you for the video, I actually have a Garmin Fenix 6 sapphire, however, all settings on Garmin are very similar. Can you please help me with the dual grid on how to keep it on display? as when it's activated on the ground it seems to return to my watch face having me press the GPS button again for coordinates which is not beneficial for my line of work. Many thanks I will look forward to your response.
Nacho cheese dispenser......gold!
Nice Vid!!!! Question: Fenix 6x or Suunto 9 for mainly hiking/backpacking? To track pace and other hiking metrics.,

Also, any rumors about upcoming releases?
Great video !!!
Hi does the temperature sensor fixed ? and give ambient weather ?
Cheers Mate!
14:20 nice one
Can you send and receive waypoints by wifi or bluetooth for example?? Mark a waypoint on my Fenix 6x and send it to other Garmin devices?? Thank you....
Just got issued one of these for free, never had a "sMoRt" watch. Trying to learn about it. Pretty cool so far.
What is you're wrist width in cm? Thank you for this video!
I am SO(!!!) looking forward to getting me some nacho cheese xD 
@14:12

Thank you DC, for a super useful, informative and in-depth review :) 

I am mostly interested in the Tactix Delta... but as far as I can gather, it is the same as the Fenix 6X pro (in all but the design + a few tac.features)
Quality vid!
I have a Garmin 235 that works perfectly and is 2 years old. How often would you suggest upgrading a Garmin watch?
Gotta love that nacho cheese dispenser lol
polar vantage v is my favourite !!!
Hi, do you know if the HIIT (from the Venu 2) is also available on the Fenix 6 or on the Garmin app?
Kind regards, Jimmy
YOU ARE AWESOME!! SOLID REVIEW...JUST SUBSCRIBED !:)
Awesome video - love the Nacho Cheese dispenser ! :) (I paused the video ;).
Garmin needs to sponsor you!
I’m visually impaired. But cycle a lot. I’m thinking of getting the F3 or 5. Do any of the Garmin watches have gradient. So I can see how steep a climb is.
That.back.drop.though! <3 Dang!
Rainmaker- you are one likeable dude.  and nacho cheese, haha, if only. thanks for all the info
I've paused to read on 14:21... :) I have a question.. is  gorilla glass scratch resistant enough? I have phones for years and do not see any scratches on these..
Hi Ray. Thanks for the review. What does the increased resolution on the 6 and 6X translate to in terms of view ability? Do the colors pop more, or are they more vibrant?
Hi DC :) maybe you will have a little bit more info about Fenix 7 or/and 7 pro? :) Got frustrated with VantageM when it comes to winter profiles and wondering if not to change for Garmin ;)
Thanks for a very good overview. Do you know if Fenix6 uses Barometer for Altitude measurements or GPS signal, or is it possible to choose?
I ask because Barometer from Fenix 3 had always an issue after hard water contact for some period of time (when swimming in calc water or just every day shower), with fixed value -20000m or +20000m and it gets people sad, that in the middle of their training barometer go crazy and whole training is broken.
Just a thought... Iown a Garmin Instinct and the Open Water swimming GPS tracking  "sucks". Is that any better in the 6??
Will try out the 6x Pro Solar, but G-Shock have had Solar for a good while with very strong build and sapphire so I Hope garmin not go low end stuff for that price. 😀
I was wondering if the garmin varia smart lights are compatible with the fenix 6x pro solar??
Im curious about some of the information you provided on the battery life. What does the "smartwatch" mode include? I kind of figured it would include full functionality but upon adding GPS and music it drops. Im wondering what features are bundled into that "smartwatch" category. Thank you!
I just bought Garmin Fénix 6 Sapphire after watching this! Hope it will meet the expectations!
Nacho cheese dispenser? YAY!
Hi Buddy, would i be right in assuming the Fenix 6 Pro Solar Edition is the best at the moment for multisport use? I am currently also looking at the tactix Delta Series for no other extra reason other than it‘s a very cool watch. Yep, I understand it‘s probably overkill, but your thoughts on the two watches would be appreciated. Thanks 👍
Nice!
I'm still looking for that added nacho cheese dispenser :)
Wow! That is some watch. A watch for Galileo….he was the first person to wear a clock on a chain around his neck (-;. What do you think about the medical data…does it do a good job? Sleep data? Blood pressure monitor?
Great review - Thanks
Good video. Thank you! Perhaps you could do a test from a runner's point of view regarding the distance measured by the fenix 6. There are reports in the Garmin forum that the 6 measures the wrong distance during the run. So on a staked route, the fenix probably does not show a distance of 1 km for some, but 50 meters less in each case. This falsifies the pace. Sure, a stryd can make up for that, but can you confirm this discrepancy? Allegedly, the fenix is ​​said to have recorded the distance too short even after the run. I would be happy about your experiences. A video would be great.
Killer feature - Nacho Cheese Dispenser!
Looking at a Fenix 6 base for my first watch. Looking for health monitoring features for running/hiking/weightlifting… not interested in maps and not looking for wifi connectivity. Current Sale price is in my range and i like the look of it. Dont want an apple watch… Any input is welcomed…
Would you get Garmin Marq Athlete or Fenix 6 pro solar?
Great review . Went to order one but I want solar with the sapphire glass but you can't get it with solar is this correct?
Having a Suunto 9 which is big and kind of just a different looking ambit 3... would you recommend going for a Fenix 6s Pro? I miss the round trip routing, map navigation and more data analytics... Suunto's app is really behind the competition and I hate being dependent of a computer to be able to update your Suunto. Will I be happy with the Fenix or is there not that much of a difference with regards to the Suunto? I hope the wrist HR is better than Suunto's too
Really great video as usual!  I have a few questions for DC Rainmaker and also other people:
Would you go for the Fenics 6X with sapphire glass or with a solar panel? 
Does the sapphire glass make a big difference in terms of scratches and durability? 
I would mainly use it for running.
Hey thanks for the content. Will like to get your opinion on having the Fenix 6x as a bike computer. Mounting it on the bike, what do you think about that for a starter? 

Take care there man. :)
You are the best!
Looks amazing, what is the combination of that watch in the vid where it has like a green tinge on the bezel?
Nacho cheese dispense, eh?  That is a good one!  LOL
Expedition mode might just be useful for first time solo hikers who are kinda afraid they'll lose their way in the forest/mountains
I am in a plan and need to do 15k tomorrow. But i have to choose the session, or to run with pacepro which is what i want to do. If i run with pacepro, will detect garmin coach as a training session of the day?
I recently purchased the Vivoactive 4 but unfortunately, I sent it back due to the 2 vibration notification when receiving a text or a phone call. Garmin informed me that it will only vibrat 2-3 times due to trying to safe battery life. I would like to have the option for it to vibrate 2 or 20 times or 5 to 15 seconds. I discovered the issue when I was working out, missed very important calls due to the 2 fast vibration which only last 1 second. I was going to order the Fenix 6, but they said that it's program to do the same way. Have you had this issue and if you have how can it be fixes. For the cost of the smartwatches I should dictate how many seconds or how many times it should vibrate, not Garmin. Please let me know your thoughts, thank you.
Beautiful background
Hi DCR! I need to replace my Garmin Forerunner 920 XT. What would be a good replacement? Thanks!
I subscribed to you because of this video.
d'you know if the display resolution was improved at all with F6?  I wonder if the watch face is able to now emulate a real watch hand, if say an analog face is chosen.
Hi. I went to see yr web site but when I clicked on activity tracker , heart rate sensors, didn’t see those without a chest belt models from Garmin n Apple? R those accurate? Looking at Garmin venu or something... thanks
I just got the 5x plus :( didnt know the X was available
great, thanks!
I've been trying to pick the perfect watch after my previous died, and I'm having trouble making a decision. I'll be using the watch for running, biking, weight training, indoor rowing, golf, and hiking. I'm leaning towards the 6x as I want something durable and will last for years, however I'm not sure if the sapphire screen is worth the extra money. If you get some time I would greatly appreciate your feedback on this. I also checked out your website, great review!!
How scratch resistant is the solar glass? I did some research and apparently the glass is Gorilla glass (it didn’t mention which generation). Ray, any input?
6X Pro a good upgrade over the Fenix 5 I wonder, been waiting for a replacement for ages
do they finally support the Unicode-Character?
Does it have the same problem with ABC like the 5X where the Altitude, Barometer, Temperature sensor fail after few months? I had to swap my old 5X about 9 times under warranty because of this Altimeter, Barometer, Temperature failure issue?
i would LOVE to get a new fenix watch, just because of all the features.


problem is though ...
My Fenix 3 is still working as amazing as ever and these new watches are SUPER expensive. 



will buy, as soon as i win the lottery!
Thought you were wearing a kippa at first then I saw it was your sunglasses anyway great video thanks =)
How many GPS systems is it using at once? All three or still only 2?
Dude where are you at 7:40? VERY Nice View (and also very good video about the Watch!!)
You had me at nacho cheese dispenser
Does Garmin update any of these new features to Felix 5 devices?
Do you think 935 will get the swimming hr feature
Hi DC Rainmaker, I have one question about the solar fenix 6X. If you turn it off and leave it in the sun, does it charge your watch?? and Thank you for the review!
awesome reviews, you should be paid for that
Can I set my Marq to those widget glances ? Can‘t find it in the settings.
DC Quick Question.. I just got the fenix 5x Plus from REI. Should I return it and get this? I upgraded from the 3 mostly for the pulse ox but its miserably slow to measure? I am a Ultra runner Thanks
I took the plunge and got this after watching a few videos about it, including all of yours.
One thing I can't figure out... the weather widget shows the temperature in F by default but I'm in Canada and familiar with C. Can't find anywhere to change it. Anyone know?
You know if the HR during the open water y the same the using the HR band???
Hey I have an Apple Watch 4.. is it worth making the shift to this model.. I play a lot of tennis and moderate weight training...Pls do let me know
Hi
Do you  know beside to save battery time, why is the Apple Watch heart rate sampling is set at 10 mins? 

And how is this compare with the Polar or Garmin continuous heart rate in usefulness?

Thanks !
The WHR senor lights are not coming on, is there an activation I am missing or is there a fault issue?
Nacho cheese. Great vid as expected!
Great. Thanks
Hello Ray,
Have an question a couple of weeks ago the fenix 6 got an update, after that there's a new feature in garmin connect. 
Walk/run its measures if you walk or run or inactive during a run. But the data isn't right how can I change that?
Would have loved to see how the 6X Pro/Solar with its Sony GPS chip fairs against its prior model. 
Last week I purchased the 5X Plus. Come to find out the Fenix 6 will be released next week at REI. If the GPS tracking on the 6X/Solar equals or surpasses its predecessor, I'll return the 5 and pay the extra $$ for the 6 Solar.
U saved me few seconds for me to sleep!
The boss has spoken
What is H72 / L33 on watch face solar ?
Hello. I have heard that GPS in Fenix 6 is worse than in FR945 and Fenix 5. I have seen some comments that it is because of new Sony GPS chip or because metal bezel in F6. Can you let me know if you noticed any issues in that area for F6. If you compare Fr945, F6 and Venu2 which one has the most accurate HP's tracking?
So what is the durability of the new solar glass compared to the sapphire?
Hi, you compared the same track in the same time between mediatek ( for example 5x plus) and new Sony chipset? In the polar vantage v is very very inaccurate after one year
Based on your review, I think the best watch for myself is the Fenix 5x based on features and price.  I can buy a brand new 5x from a US authorized Garmin retailer for $450-$480 on sale.  While it's great that the new 6 series has some neat features, the 5x is still more watch than the lower line of the 6 series (unless you want a smaller watch...size matters).   My suggestion is to pick up a Fenix 5x while supplies last as I don't see the lower line of the 6 series as being a game changer.  In my opinion the 6 series would have been a game changer IF it had return texting and return phone call option.
any words on pushing the 6 or 8 displays on the older fenix 5x plus model?
is it using the ECG sensor for the heart rate?
did you say that the solar option is not available with sapphire?
Dc, I am an enduro dirt bike ride. What is the best watch for me? I do like lap timing, HR, gps to track etc.. what do you. Recommend?
when do we going to have a review about Suunto 9/7?
Don't be too quick to dismiss the Expedition GPS mode. I plan to use it! (who wants to carry a power-brick when camping? Not me)
I was excite about this watch but unfortunately the Garmin Express was unable to update anything on the watch and I had to return it.
Is the HR and Step Counter accurate??
Can't wait to get it! But I just wanted to ask: Do you think it's safe to buy it as soon as they release it (it's not released in my country yet) or should I wait some time? I'm worried about some possible problems with it since it is brand new.
EXCELLENT
Really nice watch. But if you don't like scratches on the screen then get the sapphire one! 
I crashed dragging my screen against the pavement without a scratch on the screen!!
how about the coros vertix? im hesitated between the vertix and fenix6 TAT
Bedankt. 
Expedition mode would be useful for ocean sailors as yet another duplicate system for recording location
Great video. I now notice that PacePro has been introduced for the Garmin FR 935 as well. Perhaps more models too.


Edit: I see it on Connect, but don't know how to export it to the watch! Edit 2: says Garmin 935 not compatible. Perhaps a software update will do the trick.
Best smartwatch on market
Do I need to make my garmin fenix 5 always connected to iphone bluetooth to get metrics of running or Can it auto upload it when I go back home via wifi? I am not using phone notification on watch, just the metrics.
Is the quality of the music on Spotify any different from the predecessor? I found after testing the Fenix 5 plus side by side with an iPhone that the Fenix 5 plus uses some other lower quality codec for either bluetooth connection or it downsamples the tracks for it to fit in the internal memory. It was notable enough for me with my jaybird x3 that I actually returned the device. Has it changed any or is it the same?
What about screen resolution 280x280 , do you see difference ?
Are you training for UTMB?
Looks good, but the 945 is lighter, and that makes it sweeter.  I'm good to go for a while.
Nacho cheese dispenser is really worth it :-D...
My Garmin 6S Rose Gold is finally arriving tmr after waiting for more than 2 months. I can’t wait to use the Nacho Cheese Dispenser on it. Hehe! J/K!
Anyone know what the number is that shows up straight after a workout? I’ve seen 1-4 but doesn’t necessarily seem to correlate to the intensity.
I guess this watch is probably outdated by now - but I was hoping I could get some input. I want a new watch, primarily for running, but also everyday use. The Garmin Fenix 6 and the Polar Vantage M2 are now almost the same price in my country. I much prefer the look and weight of the M2, but everybody loves the Fenix series so much. Would it be stupid to buy the M2 when they're essentially the same price? If I do, what do I miss out on? Hoping some kind folks would be able to advice me :)
Great review, just wondering is it a little less model more suitable for lronman events?!👌
It’s really nice. But in just got the Garmin Marq Expedition. It just stands out. The look is a lot more premium.
Did you test whether the solar actually solar charge?
Thank you very much for this - but these are not out yet - lucky you got to review them and see them before anyone else got the chance - private viewing before the movie premiere - 
I recently got the 935xt - it was very unreliable, inaccurate and not worth carrying it. 
I am too wary of touching garming of any kind with a barge pole.
Thanks Ray. Do you think Garmin might introduce other variants such as D2?
I want it for the cheese dispenser!
I've seen the specs on Garmins website and I've noticed it doesn't have the swimming pace alerts like the Swim 2 does. Do think this is something that will be added in future software updates? I'd like to buy this watch, but I want all the swimming features available.
Does the Fenix 6 Pro have the blue tint to the screen?
Expedition mode may be used by through hikers hiking the PCT or AT.
So whats with the delay in the Pro Solar - Titanium with Vented Titanium Bracelet? Politely asking, cause the website still has this thing on 8 week expected shipping!!! DC Rainmaker you got any connections over there at Garmin?! Heeeeeeelp! Thanks :)
Dude...where are u?.....the background location is amazing!
Hi,
Is it just me or everyone face the same issue. Seems that I always has to use my polar oh1 arm sensor pair with Garmin to get a proper heart rate reading or else the hr data is completely off.
Does anyone know if the 6X still limits the number of Connect IQ data fields per activity? I have a 5X which I'm pretty sure is limited to 2 IQ fields.
I think I heard you say there’s a 3rd party app that allows you to respond to texts on iPhone with Fenix (I have Fenix 5X Plus). Did I hear correctly or no? If so, what’s the app? Thank you! Love the videos!
At the moment i have Fenix 5plus sapphire. Today i checked 6 and dummy 6x and i am impressed by the new software layout. It is much more modern and clean. I decided to switch :) However i cannot decide between 6 and 6x. Is it true that in 6x is able to show more data on one screen? If yes i will turn to 6x. Price difference is 50 euro which i think is worth extra screen and battery. It is much smaller than 5x which was bulky with this small screen.
Exactly a year after I bought F5Plus, they release this beauty....

Skipping for now. 5plus is amazing!
Hi Ray, is it worth buying 6X Pro these days? I mean, that maybe a successor is already on the way. Enduro is not for me mainly because I need the music and maps. What do you think? 6X Pro is almost 2 years old. 945 LTE is not available in our country
Garmin 6X PRO now $150 off because people realized that there's no nacho cheese dispenser? Thanks for the head's up, excellent review!
sooo this nacho cheese dispenser tho... I want a taste test lol
Nacho Nacho man 👍
Can you tell me what material the back of this watch is made of? Is it nickel free?
TY!
Like the other Nick, looking forward to the nacho cheese dispenser. I bet they’ll be small nachos then.
NB NB!   playback speed x1.5 really helpful :D
Thanks.
Do you still feel like the gps is accurate? I’ve had my Garmin Fenix 6X Pro Solar for several months now and it isn’t as accurate as the COROS Apex Pro or my friends Garmin watches who are wearing older Fenix models. Is there something that will help correct this issue, perhaps a calibration?
So which to buy a 6S Pro or the new 945, as someone who is purely a runner
Can someone please help. I have a garmin 3 HR and I’m looking to upgrade but can’t see if the sensors in the new models are different? Of if they are just interpreting the data in more ways ? Thanks
so with that popularity feature, does it upload location data to a server? id get this watch if it was passive gps only, no location data shared
Have someone tried to pair with Bluetooth headphones with 5.0 version? Because fenix 6x is with 4.2 version. I would like to buy headphones with 5.0 version, but I'm not sure if they will connect together in a good quality!?
Mmmm Nacho cheese dispenser is the best ever feature!
Can anyone help? I have a fenix 6, I have set myself a goal of cycling 2500km this year through the web version of Connect. How do I get that goal to the dashboard of the app, or even onto the watch itself?
Does pacepro only work on the 6? Or does it also work on the 5 plus as well?
Great review....Do they plan to add Fenix 6 features into Forerunner 945?
Can you Apply the sapphire Lens to a Regular Garmin Fenix 6? :D Great Vid!
Pretty cool technology with the solar. Instinct Solar is more practical with solar IMO. Rather have it than not on the Fenix.
Will a vivoactve 4 br rrleased?
Just bought a fenix 6 pro 👍
Oh man. I'm just imagining what my recovery would be like if I added nacho cheese. 😋 😮😅
6x pro vs Apple Watch series 6 optical reader. I run my heart rate, no strap, on this morning heart rate run, my Garmin alerted me I was high at 120 which is good but it just kept going higher, top off at 167, meanwhile wearing Apple Watch on other wrist the rate showed I was at 109, and based on my breathing and talking the 109 is correct. People on Facebook are telling me get a strap which is not a problem but do you see a trend with optical sensors on Garmin watches. I like the convenience of the optical sensor but that’s a big difference when you run by heart rate. Thanks for listening
Nacho cheese dispenser 🤣
Nacho cheese dispenser - at last!
So the Fenix 3 is on sale?
It's got a built in Nacho cheese dispenser?  SOLD!!!
I ordered one for my daughter and she's excited about the nacho cheese dispenser.
but do you run with your watch facing towards sun?
Next video idea: I was curious if a US purchased Garmin, Polar or Suunto watch maps would work straight away in Europe or another part of the world. As a triathlete who travel to the European championships and back to Kona hawaii I want to be able to use my running watch without having to pay and download new maps to it. Garmin I know charges $70+ (ridiculous) for each country map using Garmin Express. Is there a watch that has it all?
Gonna upgrade my Fenix 3 no HR with a base 6. No need for fancy wifi, music or maps. The longer battery duration, snappier os and increased PPI will be a nice upgrade from the base 3.
I wonder if Garmin has fixed the bug in training with Garmin Connect ?
Which model do you show at 0:19 ?
Dose the Garmin Fenix 6X Pro GPS Watch - Black Case with Black Band  can you chance the watch face to look your dog and so on dose it have a feature where it has sleep tracker I know you said in the video it’s got a heart tracker I’ve got like $1800 bucks comeing and I want a really good watch but no Rolex :) so yeah good if you could answer them questions please I was going to get the Casio G-SHOCK GPS Solar Rangeman Watch find out by videos that was just a big gps watch
You are the GO TO GUY for these reviews. 

I purchased a Garmin Instinct after one of your videos and it was perfect for hiking and biking and running. I only wish they’d add a surf option without buying a new watch. 

But, the Fenix 6 seems like a good upgrade and has surf capabilities.
Stupid question but does it have to be connected to your phone to use the GPS.
Can anyone tell me if the Garmin Vivoactive 3 would still count steps in watch mode or low power mode
Wish they give the 6s the polar glass too :( have no choice but to stay with my 5s+...
Is it brighter ?
Great!!
So no saphire for the solar model. :(

Does it come with 2 batteries? Constant charging should be bad for the main battery. So having a different power source for the solar panel would be smart.
no one does reviews like DC.
Anyone knows if there is tide indicator for hight tide or low tide? thanks
Q: Is the glass in the solar model as good as the Sapphire glass? I love my sapphire glass and probably won't give it up for the solar model if it isn't as scratch resistant.
How to setting fenix 6 in detail to show our vo2max...
Added Nacho Cheese Dispenser!? LOL!!!
FYI the ball size for Miniature Golf and "Big Ball Golf" are the same.
Great review thank you. I’m on the fence between the 5X or the 5 plus at the moment
I've never been to your channel before and this is the first video I've seen by you so I thought maybe this (admittedly unsolicited) feedback would be particularly valuable: I couldn't understand what you were saying in the first 6 seconds. The majority of the problem was a lack of diction. Everything was rushed together, and that's understandable given the pressure to get in a catchy intro as quickly as possible. But I was entirely deterred from wanting watch this because of this issue. "What if the rest of the video is difficult to understand?" I'm willing to bet that there are others with this experience. Just my two cents, but I imagine improving on this could help expand your subscriber base, especially since the thumbnail for this vid was attractive (so I'm assuming others are of similar quality), you already have a pretty solid subscriber count (so you've got some authority on your side), and you or your team seem to know your way around equipment and filming. All the best to you and for your channel!
upgrading now; must have that nacho cheese dispenser!
i like that 3 widgets per page, hope that comes to connect iq
Why doesn’t Garmin ever make features reverse integrate?  I spent good money on a Descent MK1 Ti and  it would be great to get some of these features. Without having to spend another $1500
hey, do you see any issues with the screen contrast for the fenix 6 series? i have a 6s sapphire and my husbands 6 sapphire has a blacker screen. my 6s sapphire has this ugly blue color to it. do you think i should return it and wait for the next fenix to come out? do you think fenix 6s plus will be coming out this year?
Does it operate on the Metric system as well?
How can i set a countdown timer for 45mins?
Garmin is going the way of how mobile phone manufacturers are marketing and pricing their Flagship phones
Nacho cheese dispenser 😂😂😂
I don't understand what the advantage of 'widget glances' is. They show very little information compared to a full-screen widget and due to the circular screen, you generally have to scroll to the widget you're interested in in particular in order to see what little information it does show. All I find that this achieves in effect is to put another press of the start button between the user and the first full page of the widget, after scrolling to it.
Does it have built in thermometer? Can it sense real time temperature?
Copying a feature is a tough thing to say. I have seen very similar ideas coming up from people in completely different companies and fields. One company was faster in implementing but it doesnt mean its a straight copy ;)
Like the solar and wrist based HR for swimming. I hope they fixed the terrible job the Fenix 5X plus does sleep recording. I use my 3HR for that. I probably won't use a lot of the other new features. Garmin needs to stop trying to have an all-in-one thousand dollar watch. They should split their watches to adventure, social and sports/activity trackers. The solar watch will extend backpacking performance time.
does garmin update software and firmware over time
So solar needs direct sunlight? Indoor light won't work?
How does this work within an Apple eco system? Who converted from an Apple Watch to Garmin and what are the pros and cons?
I want that nacho cheese dispenser if it is Titanium  (:))
I need the nacho cheese dispenser! :D Perfect for the long runs!!
Nacho’s
Sounds like a nice upgrade.
I wish they would fix Garmin connect Y-axis to be scaleable like the X-axis, so you can actually see pace intervals and the entire software actually be of some use. This is 2019 Garmin, how can you have so much great hardware and useless software...
Nacho cheese dispenser haha
all I want is a bike version of the Overlander
Why there's no option to speak via Bluetooth on watch... Its just perfected but as a smartwatch, this is needed. Only who used that before who can get what I mean. Thx for you effort mate!
Just like yourself, I'm an American living in Europe and would prefer to buy my stuff in the US. With the Fenix 6S Pro, if bought in the US, how do I get all the Europe maps downloaded? Is this a reason to buy the 6S Pro in Europe? the price difference these days is stiff! Thanks
I think alot of people will find the expodition mode very useful. Battery Pack wont help much, if you need to carry a custom cable to charge the device. Granted its not very space consuming, but still...
More than 4 data fields on screen? Maybe I have to replace my good old Fenix 3HR some time soon...
What a lvoely place for a run, where is this? Thanks.
I so regret buying an iWatch4 last year coming from Garmin Fenix 3 since it came out without heart rate. Seeing this video now its like wow feature after feature... Too bad the top model prices have doubled since then
Can map other countries can.add?
you had me at nacho cheese
What is your wrist size? Do you prefer 6 pro or 6x?
You’re great. Yup, you’re great.
Should i wait for the 7 in a few months?
Do the solar have a sapphire screen?
The reason you saw more running versus hiking could be because of the big issues that Garmin acknowledges but hasn’t fixed with the hiking sport profile.
Bought the Sapphire 6X to upgrade my Fenix 3 and the contrast was horrible in comparison to my older device, more grey than black, straight on and at an angle, returned it and waited, bought another from a different vendor and it too had a similar screen, returned that one too. I see all of these reviews with nice black backgrounds and wonder where they are getting them.
Nacho cheese dispenser? What is that? LOL
What's the release date?
How does the cheese dispenser works?
No LTE connectivity  :(
Does the solar version charge with artificial light?
11:40 how do you get this bike widget
does this watch have a thermometer? internal sensor for temp ?
Nachos Cheese dispenser..........brilliant! As always a brilliant review!!!! How did 82 trolls get on here? Every review from DC rainmaker is excellent!!!
Better choice between fenix 6 pro solar or fenix 6x pro for the same price?
The improved GPS signal probably comes from the addition of the third GPS system, Galileo
My fenix 6 sapphire won’t update half of the things like weather and after reinstalling and syncing multiple times I’m pretty over the crappy software
hay, how to enable this nacho cheese dyspenser? Seems mine Fenix is not working correctly ;(
Many of these updates could be added to 5x via firmware:(
Soy Peruano, y quiero la version de Cevicho Dispenser! RIGHT NOW!
NACHO CHEESE DISPENSER ... YES!!!! ;)
I have no use for this watch.
I don't need it.



BUT I WANT IT!!!
I wondered why everyone at the plasma center had Garmin Watches.
Lol nacho cheese dispenser hey?!! 😝😝😝
You think we are going to see a 7 soon? Like within a few months?
Nacho cheese dispenser!
Can someone please help me ASAP! I want to buy a Garmin for my husband but I don’t know what to get. He’s a runner. I know he mentioned he would like GPS tracking but I don’t know what model to get. Help!
Llegarías a muchos millones de personas más, sin incluyeras subtítulos en español. Un saludo
I wanted that nacho cheese dispenser.
I have just bought the new 945 forerunner...... this sucks... why garmin has two series of watchs? What's the focus on 945 and fenix 6 series?
I wonder if the nacho cheese dispenser has a plant based function 🤔
Is there a glucose meter on this watch?
How did u get down from there?
Nacho cheese!! Take my money.
Is a SIM card version coming out soon like the iWatch?
street maps?
Great review - thanks. (Does the watch register how fast you talk?)
Maybe I missed it, but doesn’t it have a new heart rate monitor?
nice green screen in the beginning
Why no e-sim?
does it have an i phone interface?
The pro version also has solar
Do you have to pay for any subscriptions
Looking forward to all the glitches and bugs LMAO!!! 


After owning 1 Expedition and 2 Athletes and can honesty say  that we are just Garmin's personal beta testers. I returned all those watches, purchased a nice Omega Speedmaster and soon will get the cheapest  245 and call it a day. I am not spending more than 400 USD in another Garmin, never again lol!
Personal preference I don't care about all the fitness stuff in all the smart watches. The one thing I'm curious about, since you've had hands on, how do you think it would hold up in a desert environment, including chemicals like jet fuel, and a few close call explosions? Yes this is a legitimate question 🙂
Do a mtb vid with the ⌚
I have old Fenix 3 WHR and i have 135 BMP when i hiking on the hill, BUT
 with NEW 6X Sapphire i have only 60-80 BPM in the same hill.This is to 
LOW !!!! I'm waiting for new update for F6 Sapphire/pro i hope it will 
fix heart rate !!!!
Does it have Samsung pay or Google pay
I just bought mine 3 years later...lol
Hi, I just had 6x sapphire bought from US market and I'm in Vietnam. The watch is preloaded with Worldwide DEM basemap and TopoActive America maps. Can anyone help me to load maps of  Asian countries? thank you
Maybe you see it in running becaus the cheaper watches like the vivoactiv 4 aso have no hiking activity...
My favourite feature is it's 1100 dollars in Canada... How?!
No guac?
haha, Nacho cheese dispenser
Nacho cheese!!!!
inReach technology?
Good thing about Garmin watches is they try to show as much information on 1 screen.  Other watches you have to keep scrolling. Does Garmin try to scam its user with a premium service like Fitbit?
What is the Best Garmin to buy if money is not an issue?
You're closer to the satellites up there = better GPS tracking!
Lol Nacho Dispenser feature would be craaaazy. What mountains are those?
I gave up on Garmin. My Fenix 5X sapphire glass had a 3mm scratch that Garmin said they would not cover under warranty. Saying I must have scratched it with a diamond, when its never been near a diamond. I highly doubt their sapphire is of standard scratch resistent quality. I have owned many luxury watches with sapphire and this is the first to scratch so badly.
This dude has two watches on in watch review.  #Pro
my garmin 6x  steals from a distance compared to a 5x. 6x showed me 1 5km and 5x showed me 18 km, which was the real distance .. :(
i belive next i will buy coros but i need musc.
So, solar can’t work through sapphire?! That is interesting - highest cost model has to drop back to gorilla glass
would love one but the price is too high
Oh man, not even a year passed and now I need to find another 1400 bucks to spend on a new watch! ;)
Got this watch because you told me it had a nacho cheese dispenser, but it doesn't. Will you reimburse me?
Where is the nacho cheese?😁
Solar feature seems to be only a gimmik, adding up to 10% to max runtime. I will stick to the saphire version which worked for me in previous versions. Solar is just not worth it.
Can I get a Fenix 5 for cheap now???
Do the Fenix 6 watches auto track your activies like Apple Watch does? Showing you your calories burned, activity, steps...etc?
10:20 "Not sure who would actually use this feature"  To me it really seems the 46 day life span comes down to a survival feature for the disaster scenario, hope you never need it but SHTF and you wind up on a deserted island somewhere you can drop to the low power mode and conserve power longer.  Knowledge of where you are is the most important thing you could have if your trying to find your way back to civilization in a disaster.
Nacho cheese dispenser??
I think they could afford to increase that 1 mm solar to 2 or 3 mm with bigger impact.
Does the solar model recharge the nacho cheese dispenser?   It better, it costs over 2k on Amazon!
Should i buy this today, or wait for whatever the next generation will be.
Where are you in the video?
Big ball golf...teach me
Prepping for UTMB????
Is me or anyone notice just talk run, climb, GPS, but no one talk about the music feature, wallet app, wi-fi feature, Bluetooth feature, i purchase mine like 15 minutes ago, kind of red flag to me little worried
I will buy it just for the Nacho Cheese Dispenser..😂
im bit upset is not a chimichanga or some tequila shot holder instead :)
Would I be judged for buying the fenix just for the nachos cheese dispenser feature :D
Nice video! But for foreigners that don't speak so fluently, could you speak just a little slowly? Thanks!
"Just seeing if you're reading".....LOL.....
VIdeo starts at 1:21
Greetings. I purchased the Fenix 6X pro solar watch and as far as I can tell the solar charging ability does absolutely nothing to charge the watch.  I left it outside in full sun for two hours and no change in battery icon. What gives?  What is it supposed to do, slow the continual decline of the battery?  Hopefully it will get fixed with an update.
.........   switched on here to learn something ...  spoke and flicked through the modes ....learnt f.a...............................
I guess this is RIP GPR-B1000 rangeman and casio
Nacho cheese 😬😆
1:05 what's happening to my playback speed in youtube?
Nacho cheese ;-)
I own fenix 5x its a good outdoor device BUT I have issues about connecting to my smartphone ..cant recieve notifications i spent 700eur and in my opinion i pretend that its something very basic to recieve sms phone call or an email in a watch like this ...so be sure before you spend lot of money for this watch!!!
Nacho Cheese dispenser
Slow down man, we enjoy your videos even if you make them a few minutes longer. No need to talk like a New Yorker 😃
Avez vous les explications en français svp
loved the video and the information. 
irritated by the fast talking. DAMN Man! Take a breath!
"ALL THE ALPS"
Nachos!
Garmin Fenix 6 Pro Solar still good for 2023?
I just purchased a Garmin Fenix 6X pro watch that did not turn on. After sitting on Garmin's chat support line for 30 minutes, I learned that they have no idea how to turn the watch on either. I asked to return the watch, which I bought from the Garmin website and got the runaround that I didn't try their troubleshooting tips. I tried everything they asked. I just want the watch to work as advertised.

I'm sincerely disappointed in how Garmin handled this situation. "Tom" who is probably not really Tom, was a complete jerk to me in our chat session. Not once did he offer any helpful information. Instead, he asked me two questions again and again, "Do you want help troubleshooting or would you like to return the item?" 

My advice, avoid Garmin at all costs!
👌
Looks good but still feel Garmin never finish their watches, the Fenix 5 Plus still full of bugs and unstable Bluetooth !
Haha nacho cheese dispenser
the way to think about it:

wait 6 months and buy it half off
No miniature golf courses, no buy.
Can swimmers turn the nacho cheese dispenser off?
I have bought this watch after the review and I can tell you it ripped me seriously:
a. it stopped saving tracks and exercises - full reset
b. it started to consume its battery life in 6 hours to zero - full reset
c. it broke down several times whike using it for navigation in difficult terrain (horrible)
d. It was not getting connections anymore after a time, with  none device
e. it couldnt connect to wifi either after 4 months

Just premium priced bullfuc*
My dude went to Skyrim to film this review.
Would you happen to know if a descent MK2 in the works? Dont have to tell me, just give me a thumbs up so i know to sell the MK1 i just baught😉
5 buttons ?
Been watching some reviews but really need one that’s accurate? Else they can have 1000 functions but useless when it’s not accurate?
👌🏾
Mine didn't come with a "nacho cheese dispenser."
Yeah.. it's not sponsored, but you already have it ready with tests at the time garmin reveals it. Sure..
Great video :) awesome overview and its great that you have actually been using it. I  think it could be even better if you didn´t  speak fast and mumble at the same time. thoose two things don´t go good together imo. and the information can get lost ind monotone mumbling.
Just noticed he's wearing two watches.
Почему футболку не погладил перед съемками?)))
Very detailed and cool review but I couldnt take it more than 5 mins and skipped...you speak too fast and bot clear..i feel stressed after t 5 minutes 😏😊
If I close my eyes you sound like Elmo from Sesame Street 😂
thanks for the detailed review. great. personal note: you're fast paced (you want to include a lot of details) but you're difficult to follow.
Great review, but don't drink so much coffee next time. A little slower would help a lot if English is not your first language.
I’m a little disappointed: I thought the 6 came with LTE or Satellite emergency system to call the rescue and the ECG one dérivation and not the upgrade to use the crédit card in high mountain ore the 32gb to listen music when you do a marathon...😒
Useless features I can think on the iWatch (you could have with LTE, Emergency call and ECG) but not on a Garmin. Too expensive, too poor hardware innovations...I waited a lot for this Fenix but now I’m thinking a lot of buying a 5x plus that now is cheaper.
"Big Ball Golf.."....ROFL
Very informative but I missed so much because you talk so fast.... must have watched this 3 times now
Doesn't seem worth ditching the 5X Plus.
Hope you do not mind my saying so; good review but the very fast pace and amount of hand gestures in the presentation gives me anxiety.
Love the watch but I’m not paying that much
Garmin never update an userfriendly thing before this is too old... Them have always been extremly slow with update
Can i make shawarma with that thing?
Nacho Cheese
1 like for the swiss alps
Mmmmmmm Nacho Cheese.....
11:30 waste to space?
Good. But fewer words, delivered more slowly would be better.....
"Big ball golf"... you do realize it's not the ball that's bigger right ;)
Found out that the pro has no virtueel runner ..... a high end watch schould have it all.
The forerunner has the virtueel runner ?
wow cut down on the amphetamines :)
Is this watch really worth 950? Man my fenix 3 just took a dump
I need to say this. I bought 5X plus, over $700 watch does not display Korean. Garmin said I need to get "East Asian version" if I want to see Korean on that....what a great joke all I wanted just able to see letters from the phone. returned, got apple watch instead. I
Why pay so much for a watch when the software behind it can't even add up the active calories you do from your daily activities. This has been a problem for years. All you have to do is look at the Garmin forums: https://forums.garmin.com/apps-software/mobile-apps-web/f/garmin-connect-web/108744/active-calories-not-calculating
will spending £400 on a watch take 5 mins of my 10k pb?
I just received my 6X today and what you say about the screen is not true Today. It is very washed out very bluish. I have seen some other people complain about this. I will be returning it. You might want to update everybody watching. It seems to be hit or miss. Very disappointing for the money.
I’ve just bought 5x plus :)🤬
Can someone translate this to English please? Thx
Hey hey hey  . . . Hold your horses and slow down when you are presenting the watch.
You sound like Kermit.
Good review, good editing, etc. BUT – the speed speak biting off wwords and sentences is way too much. Slow it down a bit, calm down and the entire production will be better. Machine gun talk is not good.
So the Fenix 6 base range is a total downgrade from the 5x plus or 5 plus range..other than the better screen.. the pro range has the same main features as the 5x plus....but better larger screen.... better battery life... more storage... 
and the solor has no sapphire crystal.....
I like the new larger screen.... but not worth over £1000 for the privilege.
Number 17   Garmin will discontinue support in 1 year so you have to buy a new one.
Hey Siri...oh wait.
are you Moschitta's son?
Anybody else having crazy cadence lock issues with this watch rendering it pretty much useless ? Along with the ‘less than impressive’ usual Garmin customer care ?
Can you not do that "scroll through the review" thing in the beginning, where you scroll down your entire review super fast? That's epilepsy triggering. Thanks for the review though, much appreciated.
Still don't know if you change the battery or can charge it!    you might think that is important? I definitely won't buy one if Garmin wants to keep it a secret and another thing, before you spent the big money, try giving Garmin a call to ask a question AND did they give a shit?
Garmin is starting to remind me of ENRON.. what gimmicks are next... How can i steal your money.
No speaker and no mic on this smartwatch so no answering the phone if your driving (or just want to quickly ask Google a question), I guess they want you to buy your blue tooth earphone for that, huh. Funny how they conveniently fail to mention things like this.
Great video! But I must say that it’s quite hard to keep up with the speed of your speach. You speak waaaay to fast!
Wait, NO discussion of the Heart Rate accuracy? Or the new Pulse OX (oximeter) tech and how it compares to the past? Massive oversight, dude.
More than half of the Fenix 6 line production has a defective screen with a washed out bluish low contrast screen. That includes the Sapphire. The only one worth getting is the Delta Tactix.
Jesus can some please show what these watches can actually do doing a workout other than track your god damn heart rate.
I think garmin is going iphone way! Fenix 7/8/9/10 and beyond! 😂Catch up if you can!😂
Do they have sensors that go into the laces to help with foot strike, and heel rise or uneven gait?  Or does the watch call out kilométrage?  Is there an actual watch face?  And do you look at both watches on either arm when you come from behind, pass within a few mm, and drop the laggard behind you like it was nothing?  You scumbag?  Asking for a friend.
I'm going to skip this one.
$1000 for a tracker watch and they can't seem to figure out how to make the screen brighter and not pixelated. Samsung still has them beat with a $150 watch. Even Fitbit has them beat and they are trash.
10:47  shitty marketing stuff.... old 5X had 1,2 inch display- new 6X has 1.4  its NOT 36% increase..only 15%. and for regular  6 vs 5  is even less... how come?
why do you have to talk so freaken fast
Can I shower with garmin fenix 6?
For non native english speaking people, your talking speed is a tad difficult to follow.
DO I win a prize for reading "Just seeing if you are reading?"
For that price to have those  bad maps view's  , na i don't think is that great to deserve the money but whatever
This dude has 2 watches on. What the fuck
Love your content but please slow your delivery pace. It's frenetic and makes you feel anxious listening to you
I must admit that you are saying little bit to fast, sometimes as for non english speaker some words are melting into whole sentence. So I sometimes don't know what is your intention to say.
How dare you talk bad about Sony!
WHERE  DAF* IS THE NACHO DISPENSER?! YOU CHRASHED MY HEART!! YOU DC ARE A LIER!!!




(this comment is ironical, just for explain to all that people...)
Solar panel is a joke in this watch. At this price, Garmin can at least fit a bigger panel.
Wow, slow down. Following your speed talk is very unpleasant
Too bad these things are still enormous..
Flag ship products should not be subject to not
getting new software and updated software features when a new model comes out.
For example, I bought the Fenix 3 Sapphire HR when it came out . Paid over
$1000 Aus , and only 2 years later I don’t get the new software features the
Fenix 5 and 6 get . This is Greedy , I will never buy another Flagship model again until you make a
policy change for Flag Ship Top dollar Products. Why get Crystal Sapphire model
when the thing is out of date after 12 months ,  I’ll get a cheap
model and update it every second year who cares if it gets scratched ?
it will be out of update service in 12 months anyway.. Very bad business
decision imho
Thanks to ad blocker for the free review 👍 i dont contribute to anyones ad revenue
I'm really enjoying your content as a new sub, but seriously, slow down! You speak so damn fast, I have to pause so many times and try to decipher what you're saying, it's just frustrating! If people can't take enough time to watch that you have to speak that fast, they have a problem. Just slow down and let the good quality information be freely available. My opinion, but I doubt I'm the only one.
Nothing important and professional presentation
Let me keep it real, the "navigation graphics" are :TRASH! you get better pixels playing Pac Man 256 than what was presented in this video. "Nuff Said" (Stan Lee R. I. P).
Just bought it and dissapointed, the watch looks cheap compared to suunto, and basically at 599 pounds is a rip off, and you can get watches for half this price which can do what you want them too.
It's a gimmick really with all the widgets which most you would never use and you can get the free apps on your phone.
Navigation is a let down with basic mapping ,I would expect 1.25 is mapping for this price ,again view ranger on your phone is 30 a year and very good.
Sorry Garmin bring your prices down.
Last time I checked base 6 still have a GPS...
Love your reviews but please try to sneak a little slower for better understanding.
you talk too fast
apple watch series 4 and the new series 5 are much better than this one!
Next video talk slower please
too much noise for nothing. Still the same problematic hardware with a few software add ins
Sorry, didn't finish the video. So many words compressed in 5 minutes, without breathing, I just couldn't see/hear the other 10 minutes.
Hard to watch the video, the dude is never breathing.
You talk too fast man.
Garmin products are just overpriced. Way too much money for a stand alone GPS, and their watches. Most people don’t use all those features, and I’ve spoken to a few that don’t even know half of what the watch does. “It looks nice.” $600 is a lot for something that looks nice, yet drops fast in value.
I still can't believe I paid 800 bucks for a watch with such an awful screen. Its ridiculous in 2021. The screen looks like we are in year 2001.
I had to slow the speed down on this video to .75. He talks so fast is was messing with my brain.  Take a break and breathe..
Man the UI is ugly tho
Bye bye Apple Watch.
Too much talking
I am kinda disappointed with the route Garmin took with Fenix 6 series and here is why:

1. No LTE version
2. No Adaptive Training Guidance 
3. It does not appear that solar version can charge up itself from 0% battery.

Adaptive Training Guidance is something that is available through FirstBeat and Sunnto already made a use of it in their Sunnto 3 or 5 models. I don't see this in Fenix 6 series. The only thing that they added is Body Battery feature which is nice since it includes HRV. However, Body Battery function does not give you guidance as to adapt your current training plan nor does it give you a live feedback how much you should push yourself in each activity. I think this is a huge miss for Garmin. I think both Polar and Sunnto are moving in direction of not only data gathering but also data analysis and adaptive guidance to help you improve. Garmin devices are good at gathering all sorts of data but you almost need a PhD in exercise science to interpret it. Garmin should spend more money on developing algorithms to help better use of data that Garmin devices collect. Garmin Coach is barely adaptive enough. As far as I know, it does not take into account HRV to tell you when to train and how much to train. I think I will stick to my Garmin F5X+ and add Whoop biceps band to help me get a better edge on my recovery and training guidance.
First
Slow down dude, you are talking too fast like you are sports broadcasting a boxing match!
Totally useless solar panels.
Dude, could you slowdown about 25% - 30%? Not being able to keep up with what you are saying is a major turn off and results in me and others bailing on your video. This is a review - not a race 😃
U should slow down on your speech.ppl are feeling u are nervous and can't hear it that clear.
Bunch of garbage. Go to the forums first to learn about charging issues having to replace the motherboard Etc and the ergonomics are absolutely atrocious you can't read the watch it's got such a dark display. Going back to Samsung
You talk faster than I can listen
It will not be as popular as i-watch or Galaxy watch
These watches are ridiculously overpriced
i didnt find the strip club near
I would suggest ab work for you. Otherwise you r in great shape
Being that nasally you need to slow down your talking speed
Open your mouth a little wider when you talk
U talk to quick. 👎
Is it possible to speak faster......... Jesus breathe man. Your stress must be high.
I recommend you to speak slowlier so we can enjoy. I don't take cocaine.
Difficult to understand. Take a breath my man
Dude, your mumbling made it impossible to go through this video in full. And I tried twice.
Too much talking
Yanks ramble on too much. Just get on with the info
If you like this video you'll love our new podcast! We've extended our year-end chats to a regular, on-going podcast where we chat about all things sports tech including smartwatches, sportswatches, bike computers, bike trainers, trainer apps, and anything sports tech related. 👉 https://www.youtube.com/@thefitfile
I'm in my 50s.  I'm obese.  I have type II diabetes and high blood pressure.  If I get Covid-19,  I have a very high chance of getting severe complications.  I started intermittent fasting. I bought a new exercise bike in June. I bought a Garmin Vivosmart 4 in July to hold myself accountable to my fitness goals.  I started walking.   I'm down almost 45kgs so far.  Coronavirus gave me the impetus to change and that motivated me to buy my fitness watch.
There are no two other fellows I could trust on this subject anymore than you guys!
OMG... 1hr of fitness information on watches. Great Job you two!!
The information you provide is consistently best in class. I’m in for the whole video. Appreciate the effort!!
The quality of this video is incredible, great job guys!
The second time I've followed this. It does not disappoint. You two put a lot of time and effort into reviewing these products and this year in review is an excellent overview. Much appreciated! Happy holidays!
The 2 best folks possible to do this.  Thank you
Thank you so much for putting this together again, despite the WW situation.  Two of the best reviewers on this topic in the English speaking world.  Wish you all the best
Watched the ENTIRE video! Well done guys. Well done. 👏🏼👏🏼 It was 🔥 as usual Des and Ray!
Yes! So happy you guys made it work to make this video! 😊Always nice to see all the major watches that were released throughout the year.
A must see quality round-up review before going for Christmas purchase 💯
Thanks for teaming up guys! Big fan of you both.
Desfit+DC Rainmaker=awesome
You guys are awesome. Appreciate all the insights based on your real world experiences and industry and technology trends knowledge.
I love your collaboration guys, Great teamwork!
What a nice discussion.. lovely to see your chemistry and how cleanly everything was presented.
Wow, great video you two!  Amazing summary of what’s going on in this space.  👌
Love love love my Pace 2! Thanks for both of your great reviews on it!
Great video guys, loved watching it! As a runner I love learning about all these watches!
collab of the year! 🔥
Very informative and helpful overview. Nicely done, thanks for this,
Great overview of the years watches. I’m looking forward to what will be coming next year.
What an excellent summary of the current fitness watch market. Thank you
I got the Vantage V2 after watching both of you guys! Keep it coming.
Brillant and enjoyable as always.. merry xmas!
Absolutely love your reviews. It's so difficult to choose the right smart watch and your comments, insights and experiences really help....but also make it more difficult ;-)
YEEEEESSSSS!!!!!!! Two GREAT MINDS that I can trust and enjoy hearing their thoughts :) Thanks guys for making this video!!!
Two of the best reviewers in the same video!
Best+Best=Awesome. Thanks guys!
I love them both! Thank you for great review contents! <3
The Fitness League meets again!  That was a great summary, Des and Ray.
This is a really great collab video guys! I really appreciate this type of content! Although it makes decision making harder, it helps new and potential consumers like me to show the latest trends and what features really become the most important to me!
Thank you both for this year review. That's really great to see all the watches in 1 YouTube being examined. Gives like the bigger picture where we are at the moment with smartwatches/sportwatches. That's something unique in reviews, which I only get out of your year review, and I really appreciate this, and all the work done by both. Amazing job; congratulations
Great video! Got the 6x Pro solar back in a April after seeing the review video. Des and Dc are my go to on smart wearables! Keep up the good work!
Thank you! Been waiting weeks for this :-D
Hey Des, thank you so much for your reviews and you have helped me through my decision to getting a smart watch. One question, are you going to be reviewing the Ticwatch Pro 3 GPS soon? Thanks
The best pair of fitness reviewers. I love these annual reviews. These companies should focus on accuracy rather than all these mickey mouse features they dream up.  The numbers mean nothing if they aren't accurate. Master the basics then consider adding features. Thanks guys!
Great job, that was very informative!
Great overvieuw guys! Tnx a lot.
Great job both of you 👍
Hello Gentlemen, as usual a very well done and helpful video. A recommendation for future end of year (EOF) reviews would be to add some comparison charts for Us data geeks. For example, it would be huge to see a chart of battery life comparisons across all the devices (maybe with a standard settings like; GPS use during activities, pulse ox during sleep only, like watch faces, etc.). Thank you very much for all the diligent, and hopefully fun, work on both of your vlogs.
Thank You so much guys for putting this together. I picked up running again over two years ago and currently using an Apple Watch 4 but in the market for a fitness first device to bring up my training to another level. I’m a data guy and never realize how much I’m missing out using an Apple Watch though I will miss the Apple ecosystem and smart watch features. Lots of options out there and I’m leaning towards Coros Apex or Apex pro but I keep finding myself looking at options thanks to all your reviews and recommendations. Keep up the great work! Much appreciated.
wow.. what a great video . It's sad to realize that I have to wait another year to watch the next episode of this series
You guys having a hearty chuckle and dc's golf jab is the most wholesome thing I've ever seen.
Thanks for the extended break down guys!
Awesome video! I love my Garmin Fenix 6x sapphire!
So awesome to see dcrainmaker
Absutely love my Coros Pace 2, for the money there is no other multisport watch that gets close to it. Accuracy is great usability great. As a lefty, the crown dial actually works pretty well
Nice thorough review of watches. I know that you test every fitness/running watch available but when you aren't testing something, what is the fitness watch you personally use?
Great job boys!
Great overview!
Love this cross over even more than the avengers
Great review Fellas I just ordered the Garmin forerunner 745 The Red one
This is, in my mind, the keynote of the smartwatch world.  This is how I get a good feel for the field before I recommend watches to people.
I praise you for a lot of information and short time
Great review good to see both of you, it would be good if you announced a winner or top 3.
FANTASTIC collaboration! Was great viewing - hopefully, a good experience for you guys. So, do you 'flip' to do the editing? ;-) During 2020, I switched from trail running & ultra's to golf - yes, Ray...golf! Here in South Africa (Johannesburg), it's been easy and safer to 'gather' on a golf course. Garmin Vivoactive 3 still works for me as it combines enough running & golf features (only 4 golf courses at a time - which need to be downloaded). Thanks.
I'll be productive today! Aaaand there goes 1 hour of my day... :-P Thanks guys!
My two faves on one video. 👍
I gave you guys a thumbs up (spiritually, two) for such a great job getting all this information out there, however, at the end of the day, when the dust settles; the Garmin Fenix 6 pro is still the standard by which all others set their watches by (pun intended), even though it's technically a 2019 watch, it still has features that would make Mr. Universe cry if ever he'd tried to challenge all the programmable exercises Fenix 6 pro has to offer.
Great job Des
Hey guys. Incredible vid, thanks so much. Which watch has the best (most precise) GPS accuracy for mtb?
yup watched the whole video finalised on the Garmin  Fenix  6 pro sapphire
great collaboration, if only include a review of the casio pro trek wsd-f21hr
Great stuff guys. Any reason for me to upgrade my Fenix 3HR Titanium that's still working like new? What am I missing out on?  I bought an Instinct for a present last year and almost kept it after playing around with it. No vo2 max was deal breaker for me.
The "COROS Pace 2" shows that the price of these devices, (which is skyrocketing in the last few years), derives from market strategies, and it has little to do with the cost of the research and the technology behind them.
Polar vantage V (now on sale...) or coros pace 2? As an advanced running training gps. Thanks!!!!
Had a Casio G-Shock watch for about 12 years. Looks similar to the watch in the show - as do all G-Shocks. 200m water resistant. Solar power charges a capacitor, not a battery - had to have mine changed recently. Also satellite set time. It's great but it's not smart. I need to monitor heart rate following massive familial hyper cholesterol based heart attack in April. Want to get back on bike, running, swimming, with a bit of gym. Most important is controlling immediate transition from main effort to extended cool down for steady heart rate reduction to rest. Looking forward to their recommendations within my budget.
Any chance you guys would be doing the Garmin Descent MK2
Wow, can't believe it's been a year since yere first sports watch review.
My only question is how long did it take to download Rays raw footage for this 😂 . Great job guys! I like that the E-Sports Instinct got it's hot moment in this video. I have big hopes for 2021 devices from Garmin!
Just a beginner in the watch game here - I came back to apple last year with the iPhone SE for $400. Just got a series 3 for $169. So cool that I could get a new phone and watch for less than the price of the cheapest iPhone 11. Great setup for someone who’s a beginner/casual like me.
What watch (or watches) would you suggest for me? I use an iPhone, I'm a trail hiker, road cyclist, and occasional runner and referee, but also train indoors circuit & weight training, treadmill runs, indoor bike training (zwift) on a Wahoo Kickr Snap, and I have a wahoo element with Tickr HR.
Appreciate the helpful  and insightful reviews!  BTW, what apps do you use to shoot and edit the split screen call? Very clean and well done as well.  :-)
One question: can you make customized running routines with the Casio move app?
Asking because I wish to upgrade from my Garmin 375 soon and yes, money is an issue and also I’m a casual runner. But I really like and it’s super useful making customized runs in the Garmin connect.
Really enjoyed that collaboration. Thanks both of you. 👍🏽
"This is essentially what happens when Garmin looks @ a pile of left over Instincts.... " HA! Btw, Roots hoodie 🇨🇦 !
I am watching this with my beloved Fenix 5. ^_^
Great review and I enjoyed it a lot. 
I wish I can buy Fenix6 pro. 
What is the best GPS watch for marathons only?
Good video - thanks! Garmin Vovoactive 4 wasn't reviewed? Thoughts compared not Fenix 6 Pro? I'm tossing up which way to go.
Any luck with review of hawaii  gt2 pro review
I need both fitness and smart watch... I have days where the smart watch is more essential than a fitness watch.  I'm still reviewing Garmin watches so many varieties and they put some important features in a pricy low end and other important ones in higher end versions.
I have a question for both of you. 
If you could choose just one watch that you would wear all year in 2021, which ones would you choose and why. 
I know that it is a very personal decision, but I would love to know, if you guys were in the middle of an earthquake, which watch would to reach out for, and why.
Very very very amazing review but... WHICH 1 DO I GET??? Lol! I love basketball and music and don't want it to break or have band issues. Touch screen is actually preferred for me but functionality is a must. Idk... Garmin might be a clear favorite for just features.
Talk about analysis paralysis inducing! My dream fitness tracker would have Garmin's Firstbeat software, sleep tracking accuracy of Fitbit, heart rate accuracy of Polar O-10 (or within 5%), pulse oximeter accuracy of Apple Watch 6, and slim/lightweight design of Garmin's Vivosport 4.
Hey Des! Great video I just made me subscribe. 
Quick Q if you got a second.. I have a Galaxy Watch Act 2 but I
am underwhelmed with the fitness and samsung health app. Would you recommend
the Garmin SQ music or the Fitbit 3 Versa / sense for around the $200 mark? thanks!
Fantastic video guys. Where is Forerunner 655?
Great video. What has the best HRM, I find my Denix 5 for anything nut running is pretty much useless, I feel a bit of a weirdo wearing one at the gym.
Thanks for the review, what’s the best sports watch for broadcasting wrist based HR in terms of accuracy.....I have a vantage M which I find accurate compared to my chest strap but unbelievably the Polar Vantage M doesn’t broadcast HR.
Wow, so many watches to choose from!  Can you tell me which watch has the most accurate HR sensor for an Android user?
everything you looking for its here
Thinking of switching from my Polar Ignite (great watch!) to a Grit X (no more updates...?) or Vantage V2... but maybe there will be an Ignite 2, cause now there is a Zwift partnership...
I work on a ship and am looking for a solid watch for compass and gps. On and need to keep good time, very important.
Thank you for the great and hard work testing for us, but what is the name of the software you are using to compare the GPS and heart rate, when are testing.
@DesFit
I have Fitbit Sense and i use it more for Sleep Recording Status.
Is it any other better health watch with better Sleep Recording Functions?
still waiting on that ticwatch review!
I love the garmin watches I have had (VA3 and FR45) but the vibration is too weak to wake me up.  Is there a Garmin out there that has a strong vibration alarm?
Please recommend the best triathlon watch?
Kindly suggest which smart watch should I go for as I am fitness athlete and workout I do is crossfit and strength training
Couple of quick questions for you. If you could only wear one watch, which one would you pick?

I’m still deciding between Garmin 945 and Apple Watch Series 6. I know that the Apple Watch has a more accurate heart rate sensor, but I actually like everything better on the Garman watch for my needs. Do you think the Garman heart rate sensor is accurate enough for zone cardio training?
Wow very nice video! But in your opinion what is the best solution currently available on the market for those who train at an advanced level in crossfit but can't stand the heart rate monitor and don't want to give up the advanced smart functions currently developed?  I was thinking of apple watch 6 with third party apps for training, but what similar android solution would there be?  with garmin in my opinion many smart features are lost and samsung hr monitor is really not very reliable...
Great looking, well produced video. It would be helpful to start the video with a summary and highlight some of the best watches at the start so viewers can jump to those specific sections instead of having to watch the entire hour.
I am surprised that you did not include Huawei GT 2 Pro in your line up of smartwatches for review.
So did you guys confuse the Polar Unite with the Ignite? The Polar website has the Unite for $149 and the Ignite for $229. Anyway I grabbed a Unite and love it since I never ride without my phone for safety anyway. So I use phone gps. Love the watch's value and comfort.
i had a garmin vivoactive 3 which took a looooong time to connect gps and is not accurate in getting swimming distances correct. so i'm considering to get another. However, with the rest of my stuff (HRM, cycling headunit) all being garmin, garmin is still in my alley of consideration, so as to make it an ecosystem of its own. i'm training triathlons with a coach from overseas and i get my training programs from him through Trainingpeaks, so i will need to upload my data for him to analyse. With all that, what is best option out there now ? garmin 745 (a little too exp), coros pace 2 (not sure whether it is compatible and metrics it provides), polar vantage M2 ? what would you guys recommend ?
Any day now, when is 2021 DC rainmaker and desfit video coming ?
I was going for the V2 but Saw some reviews and they mostly Said The Heart rare was very missleding is it Worth buying?
So for someone who just started running, not looking to do marathons or triathlons what is the best band for the buck to keep track of heart rate, distance, and gps? I'm town between polar and garmin watches.
I want a nice trendy watch. Which one should I buy
Need to buy which watch now ?
Ahhh the 2 BIG hitters of YouTube....did Casio make the shortlist? ;-)
What it was on 10:10 on the fenix 6 when DCRainmaker pressed a button? Look like animated activity selector?
Please do a review on gshock asics collabs and the runmetrix app.. much appreciated love from malaysia
Hey Des ,what do u suggest for fitness smartwatch among apple se and garmin venu sq?!
Good stuff, guys! Would've liked seeing an Amazfit device, or two included in this shootout. Cheers!
Question: is it still worth buying Fenix 5 considering the price is very low now?
Do you think the FR745 would be more appealing at even $450 vs $500, as that would put it at a midway point between the FR245M and the FR945.  I feel that at $400 for the FR745 that in a sense makes the 245M overpriced when you factor in the multisport modes and more advanced training and recovery metrics (and the ability to pair a power meter to the 745 with the ability to perform guided FTP tests for cyclists, and conduct guided lactate threshold tests for running).
Hi, I'm looking for a new sportwatch i have now a fenix3 and i'm looking towards the forerunner 945 and the polar vantage v2. I do a bit of cycling , but my main activity is running especially from 10k to half marathons. And next year my first full marathon. I train alot on a track and i know that fr945 has a specific option for the track has the vantage this option as well? I read a lot that fr945 has the option mapping and offfline music storage but i have always my phone with me for ICE situations. I want the best watch for training and the best data overview. Can you please help me decide? Thanks
The always on altimeter is for skydivers I remember them using them with there others
Will the Fenix 6 work together with my Polar H10 Chest Strap? Or should I just go with a Polar watch?
They had to charge all these watches before making this video. Imagine that power bar
You’re my new favorite team, replacing Farley/Spade
Just curious, why do you praise Apple watch while talking down on galaxy watch 3 and active 2? Is it the HRM that's so much better on AW? Because as far as I know, after updates the GPS is much better on GW than everything  before AW6?
Which is the best value to money lte watch under 500$ for android ..?
Following massive heart attack in April, I have a Polar HR10 heart rate strap so I don't have to rely on heart rate monitoring on a watch but could have a watch display the HR10 data - if possible. I can install my Samsung J5 phone on my bike handlebars - it has GPS, of course, and can display my Polar HR10 data, but it's not water resistant. So heart rate and GPS would be useful but not essential for watch if watch can display the heart rate and phone data with the phone in a waterproof bag and not visible. Want to get back to riding, running, swimming. Any suggestions please? Budget preferably maximum of £200 / $266
The sense and versa 3 heart rate issues is driving me nuts! It's a perfect device for me, but the heart rate issue is just so ridiculous and unacceptable for a watch that it supposed to be more of a fitness tracker than a smart watch. I loved the fact that I could do voice text replies (android), but the heart rate inaccuracyyyy... 😭
Hello and which is the best? Garmin, Polar, Suunto etc ... 🤔
Love your reviews! Which would you pick between Coros Pace 2 Vs Polar Vantage M? Why?
So you need not use the speciality clock face to read blood oxygen in the Versa 3? Wow. All other sources told me otherwise - thanks
Always wonder why Polar don't give the option to store music on board for use with Bluetooth buds, would make me consider them as an option over Garmin.
So which watch has music, good for running and biking, and is budget friendly?
You forgot amazfit gts 2, oppo watch and probably xiaomi smart watch as well even though it’s more like a smart watch.
What happened with the review of the ticwatch pro 3? Is not worth it?
What ends up as top 3?
MAJOR problem with Fitbit is they are pushing their Premium Subscription service and are limiting what you can access from your device without that service..  NONE STARTER for me...
I want a g shock that is a smartwatch with GPS, MAP and full OS functionality
When you upload the review of Ticwatch 3 Pro??? I didn't buy it, because I want your opinion. Same reason I haven't buy Huawei GT2 Pro. Because is very popular watch, I wonder, why you didn't review it? Or the first one Huawei GT2 46mm.
Wifi is also missing on the polar watches which sucks
Anyone knows in a few words how the COROS app/website ecosystem is like?
Hey, I am looking for smartwatch with offline maps capabilities (I don't want to keep my phone with myself), do you have something to offer?
what is the watch your wearing des
So what im seeing is that Coros is the best out of the watches, if not correct me please
Hi, i brought the fitbit charge 4 and the GPS is just not accurate, out by 9% and this is a lot when you do a 10k or a cycle.  Can you check your stats again as just wrong.  I have a case  open with Fitbit for a month now and the only response is they know about it but no answer
Which one i the best one ?
Which smartwatch has the best sleep tracking?
DCRAINMAKER  - 43:13 " golf,, what is that?" You are know my favorite reviewer 😁, I hate golf.  God made spearfishing, kitesurfing,  hunting, rock  climbing... so people wouldn't have to resort to golf 😉
Pretty much the only thing I disagree with is the comment that people want an amoled display on the fenix series watches.  Because the fenix line is made for outdoor use, readability is the most important thing.  And by far, the readability on the fenix watches is way better outdoors than amoled.  The fenix market and that includes the 945 market want a sports watch first.  The only thing required is text and phone alerts. Everything else can stay on the apple, galaxy, venue and Suunto 7 watches.
Why no whoop?
I had a Garmin Fenix 6 and sold it for a Polar Vantage V2 when it came out. Why? The GPS chip in the Fenix 6 is absurdly inaccurate skewing all the other running metrics to being just a vague guess really. I would never have picked this up if it wasn't for the fact I run with my wife and the distances with her Fenix 5 and my Fenix 6 was almost 10% variation consistently. Anyway, with the Polar our runs are usually +- 5 meters which is fantastic. Just a heads up if you want a Fenix 6, be aware its GPS chip is not the same as the other models.
Fitbit is not consumer friendly. Most of its features are locked behind payment or premium subscription. Imagine this, you paid for the hardware - the whole watch but you can't access its full feature unless you pay more on monthly or annual basis.
what about forrunner 945?
What is the watch you are wearing?
Guys no gt2pro?
I'm actually planning to buy best fitness tracker could you please help me
8 golfers disliked this video.
hey DesFit can you review the amazfit stratos 2 please🙏😁
damn that white fenix solar is scratched to shit. I guess that means I'll get the sapphire. I really like the blue/white color though. Damn
what about the Huawei gt2v pro?
Hello, Can you take a look on Apple Watch Series 3, and make a review on that watch?🙂 And I Love youre videos
we need more feature-depth reviews. some things many reviewers don't answer. please be the first. let us know what features the watch has compatibility with outside devices with those features and apps as well. please go over things like headphones or apps in different platforms android vs apple. please go over other brand heart rate sensors that work what features work or won't work with outside brands. please go over the differences in feature performance in different modes. please go over on-screen display information with outside devices. please give us this because no one else does. I watch 4 other reviewers for watches and no one does this.
sir you should write the watch model name on screen.
confused video just for me..
knowledge without model name.
No honor gs pro
Algo comment
soooow, buy a Venu is what you're saying? That's what I heard... Ima buy a Venu now, give me a second... the round one... yeah... nice
No one talks about the horrible gps accuracy on Garmin Fenix 6 models?
Hello, if I am looking for a watch for recovery, see my progress in sports of Olympic lifting, gym and martial arts. What would you recommend? I thought about the Polar Vantage V2 but I don't know if it is better to go for the Vantage V since it is low in price or what other option do I have?
They removed the Golf function from the FORErunner.
Is there a difference in wearing sport watches on the right wrist? Would it decrease it’s accuracy? Is there a purpose to wearing a sport watch on the non-dominant hand?
호민이 형인줄 알았네
can i get a heart
So what is the best watch.... because I don’t want to spend an hour watching this
Fitbit is the most overrated and overpriced smart band out there. The Huawei Honor Fit is the gold stand in my opinion.
LCD is disgust, Oled is much more battery friendly.
The phrase “daily driver” needs to be extinguished from the English language
Am i the only one that still thinks wear os is still an unpolished laggy turd that cant hold a candle to the software on the fenix line? I had a wsd f20 that lagged, crashed, and had at best with the transparent power saving display at best 1.5 days life with no gps or sensor use.
we need more feature-depth reviews. some things many reviewers don't answer. please be the first. let us know what features the watch has compatibility with outside devices with those features and apps as well. please go over things like headphones or apps in different platforms android vs apple. please go over other brand heart rate sensors that work what features work or won't work with outside brands. please go over the differences in feature performance in different modes. please go over on-screen display information with outside devices. please give us this because no one else does. I watch 4 other reviewers for watches and no one does this.
we need more feature-depth reviews. some things many reviewers don't answer. please be the first. let us know what features the watch has compatibility with outside devices with those features and apps as well. please go over things like headphones or apps in different platforms android vs apple. please go over other brand heart rate sensors that work what features work or won't work with outside brands. please go over the differences in feature performance in different modes. please go over on-screen display information with outside devices. please give us this because no one else does. I watch 4 other reviewers for watches and no one does this.
we need more feature-depth reviews. some things many reviewers don't answer. please be the first. let us know what features the watch has compatibility with outside devices with those features and apps as well. please go over things like headphones or apps in different platforms android vs apple. please go over other brand heart rate sensors that work what features work or won't work with outside brands. please go over the differences in feature performance in different modes. please go over on-screen display information with outside devices. please give us this because no one else does. I watch 4 other reviewers for watches and no one does this.
we need more feature-depth reviews. some things many reviewers don't answer. please be the first. let us know what features the watch has compatibility with outside devices with those features and apps as well. please go over things like headphones or apps in different platforms android vs apple. please go over other brand heart rate sensors that work what features work or won't work with outside brands. please go over the differences in feature performance in different modes. please go over on-screen display information with outside devices. please give us this because no one else does. I watch 4 other reviewers for watches and no one does this.
we need more feature-depth reviews. some things many reviewers don't answer. please be the first. let us know what features the watch has compatibility with outside devices with those features and apps as well. please go over things like headphones or apps in different platforms android vs apple. please go over other brand heart rate sensors that work what features work or won't work with outside brands. please go over the differences in feature performance in different modes. please go over on-screen display information with outside devices. please give us this because no one else does. I watch 4 other reviewers for watches and no one does this.
Check out the Fenix 6 series at REI: http://bit.ly/GarminFenix6Series
Subscribe: http://bit.ly/terradrift
Read the blog: https://terradrift.com
Subscribe to the blog: http://bit.ly/terradrift-sub
They watches have been out since 2019
