Old (71) very experienced runner (first marathon in 1969) here. I currently run with the Forerunner 25.  I am thinking about upgrading to the Forerunner 55 mainly for the better battery life.
Started running a few months after turning 39, just turned 42 this month couldn’t run a mile when I started now I run 4 days a week 5k most days and 10k 3-4 times a month. Had a hard time getting my miles up until I start following a lot of the advice from your channel over the past year. Thanks keep up the great work!!
i’m addicted to these types of videos i spend hours and hours researching what i should buy and sometimes dont even buy what i wanted. but the Forerunner 965 has me checking prices constantly for the last 4 months, seems like an amazing value just out of my budget :(
So I have picked up running as a hobby last year.. I started with 5kms without any training & now I completed my 3 half marathons recently. I am not part of any runners group or any training program. I just watch running videos on YouTube & feel inspired to push myself further. I have signed up for my first full marathon in January 2024(Tata Mumbai Marathon) & I plan to prepare for it. I believe any of the forerunner series will be a good fit for me to start with tracking my overall progress.. I am 28 & my ultimate goal is to be fit throughout my life so that I can experience more adventures in life.
Cheers to all  the runners here 👏
I got my first Garmin watch earlier this year, the Forerunner 55. A definite upgrade on my Fitbit! And a game changer for my running. Also had the turquoise colour which I’ve received many compliments about 😊
Started running in about April this year and had no intention of doing anything longer than 21km.Only started for the fitness snd health benefits of being active....sooo long story short I'm considerimg doing my first ever marathon on the 2nd of December 😁
Wish me luck

Great video couldn't quite decide on what watch i maybe need in my life before rhis video. Using a Polar 430 that dies at about 29km in. Would love the Venu 3 for Cross training also.
I started running in my mind 50's and have used Garmin watches for every step of my journey, gradually upgrading as I got more experienced. I've currently got a 265 which is brilliant. The coaching suggestions and in app coaching has improved my running over the past year. I'm going to tackle my first Ultra next year so an upgrade to the Fenix 7 pro or Enduro would be a real confidence boost.
Robin here (from Belgium)... I started running about 2 years ago and have now signed up for my first ever marathon (Leiden 2024). Sinds starting, I've taken on lots of advice from you guys at the Running Channel - so thanks for that! I'm currently using the Garmin Forerunner 955 to track my runs and gym workouts and have never regretted investing in this watch. Thank you once again for all your advice and tips&tricks regarding running🏃
As a new runner (21) that has gotten into a hybrid athlete split, I think that the forerunner 55 or the venu 3 or the vivo active 5 has more than enough features to elevate both my gym and body building workouts and run training. Not only will it help me make wise recovery decisions, but also help me plan workouts well.
Been using the forerunner 55 for the last 3 years and would agree it's perfect for someone beginning their running journey.. looking to upgrade now so thanks for this comprehensive overview of all the options.. would love the Fenix 7 pro
Fénix 7 user here. It’s incredibly useful not only for running, I also use it on my bikes as a head unit mounting it on the handlebars, swim, skiing, everything. As a triathlete doing races where navigation is sometimes needed, it saves me from having to buy a separate GPS only for the bike. Also for trail running, you have a clear map so you never get lost.
Rewatched last year’s video only last week. Thanks for the informative style of the video and impressed that you can remember all that information without having to pause all the time!
Started running this year after losing 50+kg and went from a 30+min 5k to 25:58 5k followinging the garmin coach 5k training plan and have been looking to upgrade my Venu 2 to the Forerunner 265. Also great video as always, love the channel!
I’m an Apple Watch user and I’ve been thinking of converting for a couple months now. The Forerunner 965 is gorgeous and I think the navigation feature would be seriously game changing for me because I hate planning routes. The training guide also seems like such a cool feature. Def adding to my Christmas list this year!
Love The Running Channel! I'm definitely a beginner runner who does it to challenge myself without the expectation of ever being  "the best" at it. I'd love a Garmin I can grow into, and I think the Forerunner 255 would be more than enough for my needs! Having access to features like sleep tracking and body battery would be invaluable! Thank you all for everything you do!
Great video. Looking to start training for longer Ultras. These Garmin watches will definitely be a must have along the way. Keep up the cool work!
As a new runner I never knew how amazing today's fitness watches are, I'm really interested in the forerunner 965 as I really enjoy the data you can get from running. The idea of having a wholistic view on how hard you should push yourself on your run is also really interesting to me
Nice job explaining the Garmin product lines. I'd describe Garmin GPS watch offerings as sprawling. They have a huge choice in GPS watches, sizes, bands and features and I can imagine a new customer being quite confused about which they should get. I have a Fenix 5+ and I'd like to upgrade to the 7 Pro for the flashlight. It's kind of a stupid reason to spend $700 but hey, there's a sale this week.
Always good to listen to Andy Geeking out about tech. I'm still using an entry-level forerunner but the 965 does look so good.
I've been using the 245 for a few years at this point and it has served me well in improving my pace/running fitness. I'd love to upgrade to the newer versions with the 265 or 965 even to step up my triathlon training.
I would definitely go for the forerunner 265. I think with a super accurate GPS, and features like Training Readiness, it's a watch that will both help track runs really well but also help me make better workout decisions.
As a new runner, all of these options were slightly overwhelming, but it's so cool learning about all the technology out there for runners (and athletes of all kinds!) As someone who gets lost just trying to navigate the trails of a park that's only about 2 sq. miles, any watch with GPS navigation sounds like a dream! Will definitely check out that video that covers all of the Garmin watch specs to learn more about the Forerunner series options!
Andy, great roundup, thanks for all the info and generally for the running channel! I started running in lockdown at the age of 48, now at 51 I'm taking on my first half Marathon in January and I have the Running Channel to thank for getting me out there in the first place, giving me loads of advice along the way and for keeping me motivated. I picked up a used Forerunner 735XT which does the job, but I love the look and features of the 965 as I think the training insights and guidance would really help me push on to the next level. Thanks to the whole team!
Great video, Andy! I’ve been looking at the fenix 7 pro. I’ve used the original instinct since its release(it is seriously durable), but it would be great to see the run-specific data for my half marathon training.
I would definitely go for the 965 or Epix pro just to experience the amoled screens. I've really been eyeing something with navigation and maps when I go on trail runs or newer areas around me. Love that Garmin has so many options!
Thanks for the informative video. I have always wanted a gps watch but get so overwhelmed with the options. I have been running with my phone, but I'm in Canada and the cold weather kills battery power, and has failed me on several runs. A Forerunner 255S would be my dream phone. 
I really loved seeing Toms journey, I replay his video whenever I feel uninspired to gear up and it gives me the boost I need. Thank you for being so vulnerable and letting us in on your journey Tom! When I'm feeling good I cruise to Andys videos and imagine myself looking as effortless as he does 😊💛
I love my Venu 2plus which has helped get me back running regularly this year but I would love to upgrade to a Forerunner 965 for those advanced stats, mapping and suggested workouts! Love the RC content as always, keep knocking it out of the park guys!
I switched from Fitbit to the Forerunner 55 at the beginning of the year, and absolutely no regrets, I'm currently using the garmin coach to help train for a half marathon. 
I would love to upgrade to the Forerunner 255s with music. Not taking my phone would be amazing!! 
Great video Andy!!
Just started running, and I didn't realise how much was involved in it from specialist running shoes to watches.  I have to admit the Forerunner 965 looks brilliant with all the extra fixtures like the suggested workout features that will help towards my running goals, just will have to ask Santa for it.  🙂Cant wait for the next video The Running Channel release and keep up the good work.
The video is very well organized and easy to follow, yet quick enough not feel like a drag! Great job! Very informative and well paced ;)
Thank you Andy, you explained the different models in a very concise and easy to understand way. I recently purchased the 955, using it has improved my fitness and has taken me from no running to 6km in 3 weeks. Age 65.
Thank you for the information.  Very helpful. I think I'm going for the forerunner series. Thank you
Forerunner 965. Did my first half marathon this year with my partner and loved it! Having a watch would be so helpful to train for another one next year
Thanks Andy, that's a great breakdown of the different watches. I've been a fan of Garmin for decades and currently have a Fenix 6 because of the open water swimming tracking I used during triathlon training. There are some super cool new features I would love to get my hands on and would love a standard sized epix Pro [Gen 2] Sapphire. Talk about next level 😮. Well done on the marathon this year. I'm signed up for Berlin in 2024, so I've been watching all the running channel marathon related videos. Keep up the great work.
Great video as always guys!! Super thorough.
I’m 45 and returning to running after spinal surgery a few years ago. 
I’d love to get my hands on the Forerunner 965 to help track my training.
Started running this summer with a 4 mile race in mind, which went great and it got me so hooked that I'll be running my first marathon next year in Copenhagen. With my 30-40km weekly mileage, something like the Garmin Forerunner 265 or 255 seems ideal to get me ready, help me plan my training and resting and prevent serious injuries!
Great educational video on the different Garmin watches. I've been looking a getting one for the last few weeks and this video helped me a lot.  I appreciate all the advice this channel gives. Thank You
This is a great video to drop the day before Black Friday. With so much technical data on all the watches it's easy to get a bit blinded, this cuts right through it all. I've been debating updating my Forerunner 55 to a 965 for the mapping feature. Traveling for work I often find myself constantly checking my phone for my running route. This confirms I'm in the 955/965 camp, just debating how much I need the pretty screen of the 965.
Thank you Andy for the thorough explanation of the features they offer! All of them are so nice! The forerunner 265 is soooo beautiful! It would be such a big motivator to head out there and run! Keep on rocking!!
Thank you for this - super helpful! I have a Venu (1st series) and it’s been a great introduction into a sports watch, I’m now looking to upgrade to a more running specific watch and I think the forerunner 255s seems perfect for me, but I would also love a fenix if given the chance! Whilst it wasn’t mentioned today I definitely appreciated the previous short I think Sarah did explaining some of the Garmin Safety features. As a female runner they have given me extra confidence and comfort to get out especially in dark winter runs - so thanks all! 🙌
Great work Andy, this really helps lay out the differences and shows what sort of runner each of these is catered towards. As a Forerunner 35 user, I'm considering upgrading to take my running training up a level. After watching this, I feel like the Forerunner 265 would be the one for me. Would love to have my music on my watch so I don't have to take my phone with me and I love the AMOLED screen!
I started with the forrunner 55 upgraded to the fenix 7 pro solar sapphire. But have been looking at the enduro watch as im looking to start doing some ultra running. Your channel has helped so much with my running over the last 2 years. 👍💪
Really useful summary overview of the whole range. Thank you Andy! I have a Fenix5x but think the Forerunner 965 looks amazing. Currently training for a half marathon using Garmin coach. Would be great to have more hill stats and round trip routing.
Great comparison, Andy! I've been considering the Fenix 7 Pro SS , unsure whether I'd go for the 7s or the main model. I have an older Fenix which I'm quite happy with, but the longer battery life for long hikes and the custom run recommendations using race target times make me consider the upgrade!
Great video! Really enjoyed i! got into running during covid and love your channel. Give me so much helpful tips and advice. I've now completed five marathons with a PB of 241 in London this year and would love to put the Phoenix 7 pro through It's paces
Thank you for putting this video together, very helpful.  Thinking of going with the Forerunner 965.
Great video! I have been using my Forerunner 745 for 2 yrs now and I must say it does almost everything I need. Sometimes I wish I had bought the 955 or Fenix series for those added Navigation feature when I'm out on a hike. The raceday widget also seems very appealing but that alone doesn't justify upgrading my watch at the moment.
I am a 23 year old girl who just graduated college. I was a division 1 rower and collegiate soccer player, so after graduating, I decided to get into running to keep up my fitness. It’s been a great hobby and I also get to run with my dad which has been great for bonding! We have done a couple half’s and have our first full marathon in February. I have only had an Apple Watch 5 and want to increase my fitness and running, so I think the Forerunner 925 would be great! Especially for the battery longevity and multi sport as I also want to get into triathlons. I have a smaller wrist so I think the 965 would be too big but that would be my top choice.
Great video! Thanks for taking the time to walk through the entire line up. This will definitely help me know which watch would work best for me.
Another brilliant video guys!  So helpful to see in one place the difference between the watches in the range. Currently have a Fenix 6s pro and thinking about the forerunner 265 or 965 next!!
Keep up the great work
Great video, thanks for the walkthrough. 👍
I’ve realised I really want a watch that does it all, you never know what features you’ll need. And obviously you can never, ever have too much battery time!
Brilliant rundown, thanks Andy and TRC. I've been using the FR245 music for 4 years now and have found it to be great. I think given the choice I'd have to stick with the Forerunner series but upgrade to the 965 - it looks great with the AMOLED screen. Good luck in Valencia!
Forerunner 265 training for ultra marathon nice I love it it help me lot in running I didn't know I how to run this channel help a lot
Found this very informative thank you.

Im a out door paragliding instructor in the SE England travel all over find my salf in the mountains landing in remount places.

So walking and tail running.

Dream todo the southdown way ultra!

I dream big finex pro 7 would help with the all round functions.

Thank you for the video keep it up.

Graham
Andy thanks very much for the video. I have to say that's the most informative comparison video I've ever seen and it's much listening and seeing them than just reading pages and pages of features.

I started running again during lockdown and haven't stopped since. I've currently got a Forerunner 245 music so I'm a few generations behind. The Bluetooth went wrong with it and music stopped working but Garmin were good enough to send out a replacement and no issues since.

I'm getting into trail running more and more and the breadcrumb course maps aren't really cutting it any more with me getting lost quite a few times. I've been looking at either the Forerunner 265 or 965 for the much better maps but hadn't been able to choose up until now. With your information I've now swayed to the 965 as the course planning on watch will make things much easier when I'm travelling with work. Hopefully I'm lucky enough to be chosen as the winner but if not I'll have to add it to my Santa list and hope I've been a very very good boy. Keep up the good work l.
Thank you for the super helpful and informative video! I’ve absolutely adored my Forerunner 55, it’s really helped me in my training! I am working toward my first marathon and would love to upgrade to the premium screen/added metrics of the Forerunner 965.
Thank you for providing us with a great overview of the choices.
After watching your marathon training videos Andy, really got me interested in the Forerunner 965. Features look amazing! Great vid as always, cheers!
I've never owned any kind of smart watch or fitness watch. I have my eye on the forerunner 55 as it looks like the perfect intro and would help so much with beginning my running journey!
Really great round up of the whole range - love my 945 but amazing to see how much they've moved on in such a short time so might be time to upgrade! The 965 looks amazing...
I thoroughly enjoyed this video, it was a quick and easy to follow guide that was really helpful. I'm fairly new to running as well, about 4 months now, but I absolutely love this community! The forerunner 265  looks like an exceptional watch (anything from Garmin is, really) that would really motivate me to completing my first half marathon.
new to channel! great review on a complicated topic. well done!
Quite new to the channel but not to running:). This video was super well timed for me since I've been looking into a Garmin running/smartwatch the last couple of weeks. My eyes have been on the Forerunner 965 since I'm going to start training for my first marathon after I've recovered from a concussion. Speaking of which, the watch would be a great companion for my recovery too!
Thanks for the video Andy. Straightforward and super informative. Cheers from the Netherlands!
Thanks Andy for the video, it reignited my wish to upgrade from my FR245 to FR965. The FR245 has been a motivation to start running again during Covid and now aiming to run a full marathon in 2025. All the best for Valencia!
Thanks for the great video Andy, with all the watches out there it can be very confusing as to which one would be best, for me the Fenix 7x pro would be a great upgrade from my 245 especially the mapping upgrade for my trail runs. Keep up the good work guys.
Great video. Apple Watch works for me but I’m generally pretty envious of all the advanced features that Garmin offers for runners to stay on track. I’m training to get a PB in the 1/2 Marathon despite just turning 52.
Love the Fenix 7 (47mm) with all its advanced options and sleek watch design.
Thanks for sharing all the different options as it can get quite confusing at times to know which one to think about
Enjoy following your journey to the marathon! Ive finished a 14 week program for the halfmarathon, and just ended the first week of my 18 week program for the marathon. A Forerunner 965 would go great with the rest of the program! All the best on your progress
I have been looking at different watches for few months and thats how i found this chanell thanks for summary of garmin line up ill probably land with foreruner 965
A great round up of all the options Andy. I've been looking to upgrade from my Forerunner 235, aiming for the 265, depending on what deal I can find otherwise the 255 music as a second option. Thank you for the video.
I started to pick up running since the start of the year, and ran my first Spartan half-marathon in April.
My 4 year old Fitbit randomly stops tracking during training, so have been considering the 265 for a while now, as I keep improving my half-marathon and 10K speed!
Started running earlier this year after binge watching all the videos on your channel, now I usually either listen to the pod cast every saturday while walking to our local park run (yep its walking distance from my house how lucky) or as of recent while shacked up with a sprained ankle ... Loving the info I get from my 245 and its features but really missing the mapping ability and keep forgetting to download my routes from the planner when I go away :S
Love the whole Garmin line up! The Epix pro gen 2 42mm is my dream do it all watch. I tried the last version but it only came in one size at the time. Glad they came out with a smaller version this time.
Interesting video Andy . Thank you.
I've got the forerunner 255s but I wish I had the 955 as the new screen is soo much better
Great video Andy. Good luck with your first marathon. If my first marathon is anything to go by those last few km/miles are going to hurt but will be worth it. I'm currently training for a few 50 milers and my first 100 miler next year so maybe a watch upgrade from my forerunner 245 is due. Which to go for though 🤔
Awesome video! Was looking into getting a new running watch. Really helped.
I have just finished my first 10k race and am about to start my half marathon training in 2 weeks. A Garmin would be a great addition to my training! I have had my eyes on the Forerunner 265 for months but haven’t taken the plunge yet! Thank you for clarifying that the 265 is the perfect watch for me :)
About 6 months ago I started running, after always having said that running was nothing for me. It is by far the most accessible way of working out and I'm really happy I started. At the beginning I got a second hand Vivoactive 4, but now that I've seen the light I would really like to make a big upgrade to the forerunner 965. Maybe I'll even sign up for a marathon!

Also: the running channel has really helped me to get motivated to get this far and I'm really grateful for it, thanks everyone!
The Garmin Fenix 7S has caught my eye, and this video made me think it's the one I should start with. I'm planning to get deeper into longer distance trail running over the next year, and so far I've managed with my Whoop, Strava on my phone, and nothing else. It's time to level up and combine everything into one gadget! What a wonderfully informative video (as always).
Really appreciate the videos The Running channel makes! Very informative and entertaining. 
Been using Apple Watch SE since I started running a year ago but now I am getting serious so would love to upgrade to a Garmin Epix gen 2!
I've had my eye on the Enduro 2 for sometime and this seems like an ideal time to say it out loud (or at least in this comment). Thank you for the Video Andy, your knowledge of the range of watches is amazing, or the researcher/script writers is :) Lastly it was great to meet you all a few weeks ago, running 10K - The Ultra went okay the week after, even though I didn't quite get as far as I'd hoped.
Really cool video! I started running this year in March, but got injured pretty early on. I'm still struggling with shin pain after trying to get back to running several times. I hope to have better luck next year. I'm a big fan of the Garmin Forerunner series. I love the way they look and all the smart features they have. The Forerunner 965 is my favourite, but any of the Forerunner watches would be fantastic!
Thanks for your motivational and informational videos
Great explanation on all the devices and saves me reading through all the website data. Impressive to see the development in such a short time. Currently running with a 245 and would love to upgrade to the 965
Great video, Andy. I am a late starter at 65 years old and have used a refurbished Garmin 35 to help me train for everything from 5k to marathon  I''d love to understand more about suggested workouts, recovery, sleep etc. to keep well and injury free. Currently working on low heart rate training before starting London Marathon plan and a Forerunner 255 would give me the boost I need to get out in the dark and cold months to come 😊
Thanks for this great overview. I would really enjoy the forerunner 265s music.
After I have been running for a while whit the old vivoactive3, and tested out the fenix 7, I have started to eye the forerunner965. Got to love that screen, and whit all the metrics, maps, and aids, I am sure it will help me to complete my first ever marathon this summer🙌🏻💪🏻
I stumbled onto this channel when researching the differences between the 255 and 265 and have stuck around.  I think I've decided on the 265 (specifically that teal/blue one that was shown) finally and just need to start saving for it.  The map on the 965 was amazing though and if it wouldn't take me forever to save for that I would get that one.  So many options are great to have but makes choosing more difficult!  Lovely video explaining some of the differences, thank you.
got the forerunner 255 last year and it literally changed my running experience completely! I'm now using it to train for my first ever official half marathon race :D would love to upgrade to the forerunner 965 eventually!
Great video as always. Been running with huawei smart watch for the last year and its been good, but looking at the forerunner 965 and its vast features makes it really tempting to gear up!
I would love a Forerunner 965 ❤these videos are so helpful Thank You x
Great video, with so many options it can be overwhelming researching Garmin’s offerings.  I’m a long distance hiker that just picked up trail and road running. The Enduro 2 would be a huge upgrade from my Fenix 6 for navigating multi-day hikes without needing a charge.
As always, great video!
I really like the Forerunner 265 and it would be a nice upgrade for the second hand 245 I'm currently using.
I currently have the venu sq, and although it is good for most things, there are definitely improvements that could be made for me. 

I was looking at the vivoactive 5 just because it's similar in what it offers, but after seeing the others I'm not sure 🙃 probably the forerunner 255. Gotta love those buttons
I've been looking to buy my first Garmin watch but found all of the information a bit overwhelming. This video popped up at just the right time, this was super comprehensive and helpful, thank you so much! I think I'm going to go for the Forerunner 265s 🙂
Thanks for the great review! The Garmin forerunner 965 would be my pick. 

After 2 years of battling with stupid Long-Covid. I have started a start 2 run schedule in September. I’m in week 10 from 13 weeks. It feels good to be back and win back some lung capacity! Today was my 2nd 30 minute run. 

Thanks for the great video’s and great advice.
Such a great video thank you! I have really got into running and I am hoping to step up my running game. I think having a running watch would help massively and the forerunner 265 would definitely do the job!
Fantastic video, thanks for the insights! I'm particularly drawn to the Garmin Epix Gen 2 for its blend of style and functionality. As someone passionate about fitness, this watch seems like the perfect companion for both my workouts and daily life. 🤞
It been a year now since I have taken running seriously and I must say Garmin has really helped me achieve my running goals and not to mention The Running Channel is phenomenal in helping amateur runners like me with all your informative and inspiring content. Amongst all Forerunner 965 is my favourite..
oh no.... Now I want to replace my forerunner 245 Music... Not that that's a bad thing ;) Thank you so much for this video! Favourite would be the Forerunner 965, the round trip routing sounds amazing and would be amazing for exploring. Thank you for the info!
I've always wanted a 955 Solar. All the running features I need, love the solar glass and I have been delving into more triathlons over the last year. I could see it keeping me happy for a very long time.
Looking to upgrade my old forerunner 135 which is starting to fail.  I like the look of the forerunner 265. Thanks for the great info and content!
Great video, started my running with the garmin forerunner 735xt and later upgraded to 745. Would definitely love the forerunner 965😊
Been looking for ages at Garmin, so many choices, thank u for breaking them all down, I'd def go for forerunner 55, my trusty Fitbit is not cutting now I'm deep in marathon training
I got a Forerunner 45 a year after I started my running journey. Now three years later thinking of upgrading, would like to stay with a forerunner, but there is a lot to pick from. I run 3 or 4 times a week, love the Garmin coach app. I will do a little bit of powerlifting 2 or 3 times a week, but my main focus is running where currently I want to bring down my 5KM PB. Thank you for the video.
This is the video I needed! Thank you for the deep dive on all the options 😊
I'm using the vivoactive 4 at the moment which does the job but would like to have access to more advanced running features of the watches in the  forerunner series, i think 265 might be the right for me
Very informative, thanks Andy! 😊
I currently wear a fenix 6, it's been brilliant! Love the range of metrics and battery life. With more ultra events on my horizon for 2024 a fenix 7 would be a nice upgrade. Though the impressive battery life of the epix pro is pretty tempting too! 
Love these tech info vid's, cheers!
Thanks for a good intro the many different features. I've now been able to change my mind with intelligence. 😊
just moved back to the states and found your videos super helpful in finding the right garmin for myself to tackle trails and all my activities.  Thank you for your time.
Been a huge fan of TRC since lockdown, I started watching your "workout for runners" and still use them to this day 

I have had my fēnix 5s for almost 7 days now and it's great, but it no longer holds its charge for as long and doesn't have some of the amazing new features such as suggested workout, race goal which I feel would be really helpful in the coming months as I train for my first marathon in Manchester in April. 

Keep up the fantastic content and see you at the national running show in January!
Great content as always Andy. I started running  nearly 3 years ago and would love the Garmin Epix Pro (Gen 2) to compliment my running 🏃🏽‍♂👟
Great video! Crazy how an hour after I started my "Maybe I should switch to a Garmin watch" journey you released this breakdown! Seems like destiny to me. Keep up the good work! Thinking the Epix pro 2 might be the best option for my gym/disc golf activities.
Love my current forerunner 235 but the fenix 7 pro x would suit me down to the ground.  
Keep the videos up lovely running peeps.
Brilliant video and really useful - my 45s has done well over the last 3 years but I now want to upgrade it to one of the 900 forerunner watches. 😊
Great video! I was looking at Garmin for a while now and this answers all my questions. 

The Garmin 965 is my favourite. I am racing half marathons and marathons and the features are incredible. I would love to have a watch a Garmin to see all the stats any to train with it!
Great video! pulling the trigger on the forerunner 265. would be awesome to have an Epix Pro but to expensive for me. Thanks for all the comparisons.
The forerunner 965 looks amazing for a stats geek like me who likes to analyse every metric. I started running 6 months ago and I'm totally hooked on running. Keep up the great work guys.
Instinct 2X pleaasseeee 💪🏻👍🏻
Love the channel, you’ve all been an inspiration, and a mentor, for me over the last few months.
Great video. I began running at the beginning of the year. Currently have the forerunner 245 and looking to upgrade to the 265 or 965.
Another great video i use the 265 its great for my needs the face is so easy to read when out on your run.
Great video. Love it. Running a few years now and I've always used and loved Garmin. I would love to upgrade to forerunner 965 or Fenix 7pro 🤞 one day
I'll go for the 265. The amoled display looks amazing 🤩 Good luck on your marathon, Andy! I hope it goes smoothly. Also it would be great if you make a video of your prehab/strengthening routine in the future 😊
Super informative video!  Because I run, hike, and do both strength and HIIT workouts, I've always coveted the regular sized Fenix.  However, your video introduced me to the Epix pro with that gorgeous screen and I must now dream of this one until that lottery win!  😂
Thank you for the Detailed info. I am sure what I want now for sure.
It's so nice to have a video comparing them all I always get lost choosing a new watch. I'm taking my running to de next level and am training for a half marathon and after that hopefully a full marathon. I would definitely go for the fenix 7s pro. Thank you for such an informative video
I am rather a very late starter (37) to running. Really looking towards the instinct 2x range. The simplicity and battery life really appeal to me very well.
So far clocking my time on a simple Casio
Great video thanks for posting. 
I am moving from Fitbit to Garmin and this video has really helped me understand my options
Best comparison I've seen on you tube
Tossing up between Forunner 965 and Epix Pro. Using for monitoring heart health, swimming, walking and trail hikes. Big decisions
Love the channel Andy.  I would go for the epix pro with Amoled display it definitely takes the Garmin range to a superior level.  Reading the topoactive mapping would be much easier.
Just the other day I was watching your video from last year about the Garmin lineup, because I‘m looking into finally switching from my Apple Watch (which has decided to only show my HR when it feels up to it). Most likely looking at the Forerunner 265 s for this. This video definitely helped confirm the idea!
I started using the Forerunner 245 about 18 months ago and it pushed my motivation for running. I am struggling with the push buttons though as they tend to get stuck every now and then. It is already the second replacement. Therefore, I would love to upgrade to the Forerunner 265 in the hope of better buttons and a boost with the race widget, the forecast of the suggested workouts, and the animated workouts.
I'm still on the forerunner 245 music and I love it!  I may upgrade when I start taking running more seriously, but for now it's everything I need.
Thanks for this great guide. Would love the Fenix 7 Pro.
Thanks Andy ! Very informative ! I currently use an old Forerunner 455 and would love an upgrade to the Forerunner 965 !
Great Video. My favorite watch is definitely the Forerunner 965. Looks great, nice Display and with all the features you need for running.
Currently have a FR 645music which has been brilliant but id live to upgrade to the 265s. Thanks for the comprehensive video!
Awesome video, that round trip mode is so epic. I do a lot of travelling and always tend to run up and down in a straight line or have to carry my phone with me so that I don't get lost.
Great explanation! Hoping to get the forerunner 265s this Christmas
Love how thorough and detailed this video was. I'm feeling like the 255 with music is the best fit for me!
As someone new to watches and running, I'm someone who loves tactical gear and intense training, So the Instinct 2 solar would be a dream to win!
The suggested routes on the Forerunner 965 sound amazing for travel! Thanks for doing this walk-through!
I was just looking at the Garmin website last week trying to figure all of this out. I am looking to upgrade my 245 that I got in March of 2020. Thanks for reading my mind and putting out this video!
Great review!  The Fenix 7 is awesome. Thanks for the video.
Thanks for this video. Currently looking to change my watch as have the Fenix 6S and had it for almost 4 years now. I was looking at the 7S as I've really enjoyed wearing the Fenix and wear it all day every day!!!! But now I've seen the Forerunner 965 I love the look of it, the features and the amazing screen.
Thanks Andy this is really helpful. Not for today, too skint. But to aspire to for something to help with future ambitions :-) good luck in Valencia!
My Garmin Instinct was great but it's nearing its end (Battery lasts maybe a day now) I'd love to upgrade to the Garmin Enduro 2, it sounds awesome!!
Thanks for the explanation. I’d love one of the forerunners 255
Very informative video , I currently have the forerunner 55 would love to upgrade to the 265
Interesting video, I didn't know that some models excited 😂. Keep with good work 👍.
Thank you for producing this video. I have the Enduro v1, and I have been extremely happy with the battery life. I have been thinking about upgrading, but I might still have to wait. I am tempted to go Fenix with the battery that will last 31 hr on GPS as I will not have to charge on events otherwise back to Endure. Will see. Thank you for sharing!!!
My forerunner 35 I bought 5 years ago just got a new Band! It’s gonna be the right one for me for a long time now!
Great video.  Tks for breaking down the entire lineup.
965 is the allrounder for me.😊
I've only been a runner for just over 18 months but I've been watching The Running Channel since I did my first parkrun back in April 2022. I have completed 3 10K races, 2 Half Marathons and the London Marathon and I'm about to start training towards my second marathon in Manchester next year. I would love to get my hands on the Forerunner 965 to use the Suggested Workouts feature to train towards my next races. I am also starting to get into trail running as well so the navigation features would be awesome too
Great video! Been rocking the Fenix 6 pro for a while. Great watch, but if I had to choose again, Fenix 7 solar would be my choice for those long training weeks. Keep up the great work!
I love my Forerunner 245 Music but I have been looking to update it. The Forerunner 965 looks to be next. Thanks for a great review of the current Garmin offerings.
Getting into ultra running this year. Looking at Fenix 7 solar sapphire or the 965 for their mapping capabilities along with the battery life. Both look an amazing bits of kit.
I am 35 started running about 4 month's ago and am just starting to consistently hit 5k (have mostly been doing between 2.5 to 3) when I first started I couldn't run for a bus so I am so pleased with what I achieved so far. I am considering a Forerunner 265 as my pixel watch just doesn't cut the mustard
Forerunner 945, never let me down and great for music. 
Great info it you need it.
Training for my first triathlon so a new watch would be perfect
Great video. I’m training for my first marathon next year. I’ve had my eye on the Forerunner 965 for a while now
Thank you for your informative channel. I started running in 2020 using a vivoactive4. Running now 15k and about to run a half marathon. I see that i am getting to the limits of my vivoactive for running. Looking to go for an upgrade. Dont have a preference at the moment.
Having had the Garmin forerunner 735xt for the last few years I'm looking to upgrade to the Garmin 955 or 965 to record all my running and other random sporting fun activities. Training for Rome marathon in March and 2 ultras in May, my watch definetly gets a lot of action!
A great video Andy and certainly answered the questions of which watch suits.  

I currently use a Forerunner 255 Music and it coached me through my first 10k, and currently working towards my first half marathon in January.

The Forerunner 965 is the one I'd like to move up to, but feel like I need to earn it. Maybe when I get a 2 hour half, that will be the present to myself!  

The fénix 7 pro looks amazing but massively overkill for what I'd use it for.
I currently have the Vivoactive 3 but the battery life is starting to wain and I have a bit of feature envy for the 955 with solar charging. Great video, thanks for the hard work
I love this video thank you so much! I have the fénix 3 which is huge! Been looking to get a smaller size. Just not sure if I should go with the Epix pro or fénix 7 the sapphire glass is a must.
Thanks for this great video! It really gave me a good insight on the various Garmin watches available! In addition to my Garmin Edge 1040 that I use every week for racing cycling, the Garmin Forerunner 265 would be the perfect addition to maintain my physical health!!
Thank you for this thorough review. I purchased a Forerunner 265 a while ago (replacing a 245) and would love to have the map features available with the Forerunner 965 (not to mention the stamina/endurance measurements).
Super informative video! Since I don't have a watch, the Forerunner 55 sounds like a dream!! I mean, I do like the challenge of trying to do a speed or tempo run using my phone, but the suggestive workouts and pacing feature also seem nice 😂
Thank you for all the amazing content!
Fantastic and comprehensive review, Garmin have more watches than I realized! My first and only GPS watch has been the Forerunner 35 for the last few years, and it is still great for what I need most of the time. However now that I've started running ultras I could do with more battery life. I am thinking the 955 or 965 might be the best option.
I would love the Forerunner 965.  That looks amazing.  I still have 3 x forerunner 305 because I love the splitscreen in to 4 measurements and I love the training partner feature where I can race myself . . 15 years and I have never stopped using them
Never owned a watch before, and the Forerunner 965 seems perfect! Heard it's great for interval workouts and managing rest between sets. Winning this would truly level up my fitness routine! Fingers crossed for this amazing opportunity!
I use the 255. Great watch but the 965 looks amazing!
Thanks for showing all the watches together … very informative 👏👏
New runner here at 41 years old, just started running a couple of months a go and caught the bug. Binge watching this channel certainly has given me more then enough information to get me hooked and give me good running knowledge. Haven't got a watch yet, and never had one, so iv'e started out running without worrying to much about all the data - although 2 months into my journey already and I think a Fenix 7 pro would certainly get me up to speed in hitting 5K at correct pace without me coming up short all the time at 4.8K because mentally I think I have finished hahaha. Love the channel and love running! Enjoy everyone.
I'll be hiking the PCT next year and have been dabbling with trail running for the first time. I'd love to set an eventual goal of doing ultras, but for now, I think the Epix gen 2X would be best suited for a 2,652 mile hike from Mexico to Canada. So, as of now, that's the one I'd choose! Thanks for the info!
Very helpful video, thanks.  My forerunner 235 is over 5 years old so definitely getting time to upgrade - maybe a 265.  Wondering about garmin pay too if I can leave the phone at home.
Excited to getting back into running after taking some time off this year! Thanks for the walkthrough of all of the different watch options!
Nice video, thanks! 
I'm 34 and have been running since my school years, but I got serious about it and began tracking my progress and mileage during the Corona pandemic. I used to have a Fenix 5, but it stopped working a year ago, so I switched to Apple. However, I find myself missing the suggestions and metrics that Garmin provided. I'm now dreaming of switching back, and I'm particularly interested in the Epix Pro.
Great review Andy in whay is such a complexed feild. For me as a trail runner mocing into ultras it has to be the Enduro 2 especially because of the mapping features. 
Keep up the great work
I’d love the 965 that screen is beautiful. Love the channel, love the all the presenters so inspiring to just get out there and run and enjoy it.
As someone who hugely enjoys using my runs as a way to explore new places I’ve never seen anything like the “suggest a route” feature of the 965 - absolute game changer. It’s great that you can input how long you want your run to be as well.
The Venu option looks great to me. Incorporating training and coaching into my running while having a comfy everyday watch sounds amazing!
Really helpful video. Great explanations. I'm currently using a forerunner 45! I think out of the all I liked the forerunner 955 solar or the 965 the best 👌
Great Video! I luv my forerunner 245, but wouldn't mind the Penix 7 😊
This was an excellent video comparing all of the Garmin watches. I was undecided which model is the right one for me. I now believe that the Forerunner 265 is the one that will fit my exercise routine. Thanks for all the information.
I would choose Forerunner 255 as I am looking to take my running to the next level. Great video.
I own instincts 2s, and they are literally best purchase in my life.
I'm doing long autonomous mountain trips, and to have something that is a little helper in health monitoring, health(like aclimitizing to high altitude), and just a nice watch, you almost don't need to charge - this is amazing.
Seriously considering upgrading to enduro now :)
Great video! Been running with the Fénix for a while now, but want to switch to the Forerunner. The amoLED is unreal.
Had my FR55 for a couple of years, would love to have something like the 965 for the mapping capabilities. Great review Andy !
Thanks for showing us the range of watches available. I’ve been eyeing the Epix Pro for awhile. I hike has much as I run.
Enduro 2. Thank you, Garmin!
If given a chance I choose forerunner 265. Love the looks and features. Thank you for the advance Christmas gift @The Running Channel! 🎄
Brilliant video so informative, I have recently ran my first ever 10k at Victoria Park managed it in 1h 12 mins and even got my mug in a picture going over the finish line, I have definitely caught the running bug and just treated myself to a proper pair of running shoes, if I am lucky enough to win one I would love the 265 46mm but then if I am honest anyone of them beats my little Casio. Set my self a goal of running a half marathon befor i hit 40 so I have year to get training. Amazing channel you all do brilliant stuff and make content for all types of runners 🎉
Thanks for the superb video for such a dizzying and impressive range! I’m really starting to step up my journey into trail running and the fenix 7 pro (regular size) would be the most amazing unobtainium support as I push my efforts on the trails! ❤ 🔥 ⛰️
Amazing content! Garmin Epix v2 looks amazing for my lifestyle, running and golf addiction! I am just starting to train for my second marathon, chasing a new PB in July 2024.

Thanks for years of positive, engaging and varied content!!
A very informative video!  I’ve used several Garmin’s over the years and they have added significantly to my training. I had no idea of how advanced some of their models have become
I've been running since June this year and have used the running channel as my go to guide on all aspects of my running. With running being my focus I would go for the forerunner 965 the screen looks amazing ⌚️⌚️. Keep up the good work 👍
I've always wanted a 955 Solar. All the running features I need, love the solar glass and I have been delving into more triathlons over the last year. I could see it keeping me happy for a very long time.
Well done video. Just started running this summer and using a handed down vivoactive 3.  Would love to upgrade to the workouts and mapping features of the 965.
Love all the data you get off your Garmin definitely a great help 👍
I need to purchase a new Garmin so this video is timely and helpful. I think the forerunner 965 would fit my needs perfectly! + Andy, all the best for this weekend 👊
Really insightful video, thank you! My vivoactive 4s has served me well on my beginner running journey but I’m starting to venture now into longer distances. I think an uprgade to the garmin forerunner 265s would really help me on my journey. I also really love the amoled display!
I recently did my very first half marathon, I enjoyed it very much and it made me decide to start training to do a full marathon in a couple of months. In order to do a good training, and do long runs without getting lost, it would be handy to have a watch like the Forerunner 955 with it's detailed maps.
Amazing Video. Interesting information. 
Shame that never been mentioned, ForeRunner 745. Amazing watch and has everything you need. I have this watch for over 3yrs. Never disappointed. 😊
Grest video😊 currently using a forerunner 255 but i would really like to upgrade to fenix 7 pro (regular size) cheers😊
Nice video Andy. I’ve been using cardio mode for bootcamp classes and swimming on my forerunner 45. The 965 is my dream upgrade.
I may need a daytime nap after watching that video so we’ll done Andy and the team for the simplifying Garmin’s huge range of watches and features. I’ve been using the Vivo active 4, which has been a great starter tool for my gym, running, walking and general health, but the 965 looks like it would take anyones running and fitness to the next level. Good work.
I was really stuck between the Forerunner 965 and Fenix 7 Pro but this has really helped! Going with the Forerunner 965 hopefully 🤞🏻
As someone who loves outdoor activities, I am drawn to the Fenix or Epix line. I love the idea that I will have a backup gps during my hike. As it is colder now in HK, looking forward tl doing more hikes. 

However I am a member of the small wrist club, so i guess Fenix 7s (sapphire solar) would be my choice.
About to finish a year with pb's on all my distances, would love to again challenge myself next year with the support of a new Fenix 7 watch!
love your videos and keep running!
The Epix Pro looks pretty amazing. 

I enjoy your team’s podcasts and videos like this. Good luck on the marathon, Andy.
The Forerunner 96 would be ideal for me. The round trip feature is an amazing tool that I'd use daily. The Venu 3 is tempting for the workout animations, the 7X has a flashlight that would also be great. Thank you for reviewing so many different models.
Thank you for the video, it's the first time I've seen all the Garmin contenders shown off and explained in one place. The choice is clear, Enduro 2.
I started with started with the vivoactive 3 (from and Apple Watch) and it sold me into the eco system. Then I upgraded to a 945 for a year and loved it. Then when I saw the instinct 2x solar come out, I was interested and traded in my forerunner for it. I have had that since June and I love it. I miss mapping but I never used it really. So it’s more me wanting the bells and whistles. But the instinct is more accurate on HR and Distance than any of my previous watches.
I do triathlon and currently own a Forerunner 935. I am thinking of upgrading to the 965 with the amazing screen and improved features
Really helpful video.... ready to upgrade from my apple watch to something like the forerunner 965
Forerunner 965 for me. Great battery life, PacePro and maps on my wrist. Heaven.
Good walk through Andy, I'll be saving and reviewing again when it comes time to replace my FR935. I am looking at extending my running to Ultra distance next year and would love the Enduro watch (but £££ might dictate otherwise!)
Perfect way to know the entire Garmin watches family and what best suit you right now. After years using VA4 I am now ready to use all forerunner 965 running functionalities, if you know what I mean 😉
Great Job. Full info about Garmin smartwatches :) Could be nice to have 
Garmin Forerunner 965
Wow great composition. Love the running channel and am very loyal to garmin as a brand. Would love the Garmin 965 as it would be a major step up from my forerunner 245music. All the best from Ireland 🇮🇪
Best Garmin information video I have seen till now. I used to be confused all the time. Not anymore.
Just started running been looking into getting a Garmin and would really like the Phoenix seven pro saving up for one at the moment so to win one would be amazing
Found it really interesting to see the different features of every watch! As someone who plans to run their first marathon next year and has been doing all my training with my phone, I’d like to be more precise and serious with a forerunner 55 or a 255
Just started running when I turned 50 and loving it. The 965 with amoled and suggested routes would be great to improve my running without injury and start training for my first marathon
Hello, I have the 55 model now, and I've enjoyed it . I would like  the 955 of even 965 . I run on roads and trails. Love the channel. Thanks 😊
Thanks Andy for the comprehensive review. I purchased my first smartwatch a couple of years ago - a Garmin 645 Music. It was used but in great condition and it has served me well for my needs. I like the health & training metrics that it gives me. One day, I would really like to upgrade to a map enabled watch to give me directions when either off road or in an area that I’m not familiar with. 
Looking forward to the ‘Running home for Christmas’ video featuring Rick😀
Nice vid Andy. I had a 205 for years but got fed up with the bemused looks of younger runners so upgraded to a 55 which is dead easy to use and live with. Battery life no problem for marathons but looking to do the SaintéLyon next year so maybe looking to upgrade, hesitantly. Shame there's no marathon plans on Garmin connect....  🤔
I've recently bought a second hand fenix 6s for the triathlon and open water swimming mode. I love it! If I were to get a new one I'd choose one with better map functionality rather than just a breadcrumb trail like this one 😊
Great video! The forerunner 965 is definetely my favourite 🥇
Great video. I would like to upgrade from my 245 now as I’ve moved on to ultra distances and will be tackling UTS next year. The Fenix 7 Pro seems to have all the features I would ever need.🤞
I started with a forerunner 305 then went to the fenix range. I currently have a Fenix 5 but epix range sounds great especially with the solar feature
Love this kind of videos ! Nive to have all those details about the differents models ! As for me I’d totally go for the fenix 7 pro 😍
I have a Fenix 5s saphire and I love it ! It is the ideal guide on long bike rides and provides useful insights for running and triathlon. it's however unfortunate that Garmin doesn't include the new software features with the updates.
My dream watch would be the Epix Pro 2 with its stunning Amoled screen.
This is the video I have been needing! I have been looking to upgrade my garmin but I have been unsure of which one is for me, the forerunner 965 has all that I would want as I am looking to pace myself to new pbs and would love to try new routes on my runs with the map feature!
Currently have the 245 Music, lovely watch and great for uploading podcasts for my Sunday long run.

Have had my eye on the 265 though for a little while... 😏
I am trying to figure out what possibly could be the better option to me as i have never owned a Garmin always been apple user but this helped alot and now i have 2 options to dig deep and read about ( venu 3 or forerunner 265)
Thanks alot 👍🏼👍🏼
I’ve been a Garmin user for many years, they just work and have great battery life. Currently I have the Fenix 7 sapphire solar, but eyeing up the 7x version which is an obvious upgrade. Great video!
Thank you for the video.
I wonder what laptop, not Apple, could be good to edit the 4K video.
🤘😃👍 Great video. After multiple injuries and long rehabilitation, I have to approach training in a different and better way. I am looking for a sports watch where you can record  data of mainly  my running training, but also cycling, swimming and fitness, to combine for a better training schedule. A sleep function that records your sleep is also useful, as I am a bad sleeper. I'm interesting in    the fénix 7  sapphire solar, for there scratchfree  display and the longer batery life. I'm also looking at  the Garmin 965 - I think this is the best watch for my budget - with the focus more on running.  I'm curious how accurate they are and how they perform compared to the Apple watch Ultra 2. I hope to be able to start the year sportingly. Thanks for your advice. Keep on running!
Great video as always! I use my Venu to track everything, run, gym, bike and also some rugby when it doesn’t has contact. Would love something more rugged and durable as the Enduro!
Thank you for an exceptional video explaining the difference between the Garmin watches! My dream watch is definitely the 965, but it will probably take me a few years to save up for that.
Currently use a FR255 for running and sleep/HRV tracking, but still rely on my faithful Instinct Solar when doing gardening and DIY.  Pairing the FR255 with the HRM-Pro seems to give me all the data and accuracy I'll ever need!
The newer Fenix has so many more features over my ancient (2018) Fenix 5S. The general feature upgrade is very tempting but might be hard to justify. But thanks for the run down, it really highlights the software upgrades even between the same series of watches. I do love my watch but it could be even better....
I have been running now for just over a year and absolutely love the freedom of getting out there. I currently have the Forerunner 255s Music in white  which is great but definitely want to up my tech to the Forerunner 965 in white! Looking forward to my Marathon in May and more adventures with the help of the Running Channel :)
I would love the Forerunner 265s. I've run my first half marathon in October and now I've set a new goal for myself. Running a marathon. I'm currently using an Apple Watch but as we all know that won't cover a whole marathon. Or at least not in my pace. So thank you for this elaborate video. I can make a decision for a new watch now!
Great video. I have the forerunner 245, it's a great watch. Would love the 965 with the extra features but it's expensive
Looking to get into garmin watches! Just started my fitness journey and excited to begin tracking with a Garmin.
Great video Andy. It is the best summary of Garmin watches I have seen. I would like the white Venu 3s or the Vivoactive 5 for my girlfriend. I already own a first generation Fenix 7 and it does the job really well. Thank you!😊
Great review of the Garmin options; so many choices! I'm 65 years old and been running for the last 25. Currently I have a Vivoactive 3(?) but would love to upgrade to a Forerunner 265!
Really interesting video. My trusty Forerunner 235 has served me well over the years, but I would really love some of the training features that the newer watches now offer. That Forerunner 965 looks great and would really help me at next year's Loch Ness Marathon
I was looking for a video like this forever! Thanks for making it. 

I would love to win the Enduro! 😍
I’ve got the forerunner 45 and the difference that it made having my pace tracked during runs is amazing!
Great Video Explaining all the Garmin Watches... Currently have an FR 255 Music.. and it's GREAT... interested in the 965 for the added metrics and Amoled Screen...😁
Great video summarizing their product line 👌 With that many watches to choose from it can be a hard decision to make. I think I would go for the Epix Pro 👌🤞
Been eyeing up the Forerunner 965 for a while. Love my Instinct 2 - navigation is it's only let down when I'm out in the wild! 😂
Very good and informative video, thank you. I'm coming back to running after a decade of laziness. Using the Forerunner 245 and very happy with it, but miss AMOLED displays.
Thank you for the video. Still not sure about the forerunner 255 or the 265. Something you did not mention was how much longer will the older Forerunner models be supported with updates. I would go for the 265 with the big bright screen where I do not run with my glasses.
Currently training for a spring marathon with my fr245. Looking at upgrading to the 265s in the future. I really like the new AMOLED screen.
The video comes at just the right time, as I'm considering switching to Garmin. For me, it would be the Forerunner 965 with its new AMOLED display and full navigation maps, which would definitely help me during my runs.
Awesome breakdown of the Garmin watches. Not knowing much about any of them, this is super helpful. I’m leaning towards the Fenix 7 pro sapphire. Thanks for the help!
Thanks for the info! The 955 looks great!
I would love to upgrade to Garmin Forerunner 965. Your review of this watch really resonated with me 😊
I have had a forerunner 245 for my first few years of running. Im contemplating the plunge to a fenix 7s as I have lots of trail ultras coming up. The extra features such as maps will be really very useful.
Great video. Gotta be the 965. Now I've got a few road marathons under my belt, the trails beckon. Maybe even an ultra... 😮
I really like the look of the Forerunner 265.  My eyesight isn't great in dim light.  At this time of year, with the dark mornings and evenings, I really struggle to get motivated to go out and run - I think that beautiful bright screen could really be a game changer for me!   Great video - thank you.
Great video! I'm using a Fenix 5X Plus at the moment. Never had a new Garmin watch, always bought them second hand. Great watches overall. I'm looking at Fenix 7x pro👀
Thanks Andy, great video, and really helpful! I've been running for 5 years now and have always used an Apple Watch, but I'm definitely very tempted by a Garmin. I love the pacepro and body battery features, I think I'd use them lots, and it would be so much easier using pacepro than trying to do time based maths whilst out on my runs. Given the choice I think the Forerunner 965 looks like a perfect match for me, as I need my music on the go! Thanks for keeping us up to speed with all this great info!
Great video! Forerunner 965 would be awesome for me. I'm always struggling to plan out a running route around my area without holding my phone and frequently checking the map.
Great informative video!  I currently use a Fenix 6 Pro, which is a fantastic watch, very interesting though seeing how the tech has advanced in such a short time
Always good to see the new lineups, I picked up a 245 a couple years ago, as that was (and still is) all I could afford to go for.  If I had the money I would probably upgrade to a forerunner 955, so that gets my vote.  The 965 screen looks nice, but as a teacher at elementary schools I imagine the kids would want to mess with it too much if it looked that nice.
Great overview. Thanks, Andy. As an @ultratrailrunners member, I would go with epix pro (gen 2).
Thanks for the video Andy! That was really helpful identifying the main differences among all these garmin watches. The variety is huge!! Personally, i find the instinct 2 series really nice for people doing many different sports and enjoy outdoor activities! Especially the solar ones, if you live in sunny places like myself!!🌞
I love the AMOLED display 😍 but also love the practical features of PacePro to really take my runs to the next level, and I have tiny wrists. The Epix,  Forerunner 265 or 965....decisions, decisions 🤔
I have been running for around 3 years now and would love to get more involved in trail and ultra running! I currently use my mum's garmin forerunner 35 which has taken me through a marathon and I have been so impressed by how long it has lasted! I would love to upgrade to a Fenix 7 s for the mapping features, and all of the data analytics as I am a little bit obsessed with analysing my runs and I would really like to prioritise battery life (I have been sold by this video)
I currently wear a Garmin Forerunner 965, love this watch,GPS is fantastic, Epics pro would probably be my next watch from Garmin,or if they come out with a Forerunner 975, thanks thanks for your hard work
Always been a fenix fan, love the ruggedness - is that a word? Should be. Still got the 6 pro just missing the brighter display. Top video, thank you Andy
I have the Garmin Forerunner 245 music and keep thinking about needing to upgrade. I definitely like the idea of the Venu range or a newer model forerunner.
LOTS to think over now 🤩🤔
Thank you for the update, 55 would be good
Really nice summary of the range, thanks. I've been using a 245 Music for the last year, my first running watch, and it's interesting to see what other things watches can do.

Preferred Model to win: Epix Pro
Hi nice vid!
I started a month ago training for my first triathlon race, and looking to upgrade my Samsung smartwatch with a 965 or a Fenix 7. Those are some orgeous watches!!
Great video. I've been looking for Garmin range to be explained. If I were to choose one I would love the instinct crossover. I could put it through its paces being the it says its military grade.
I've started my running adventures with a Forerunner 45 but after that video the Forerunner 965 looks very appealing as the next step up.
Currently using the 735XT but can't decide between the venu 3 and fenix 7 as an upgrade. Informative video and more to think about now.
I recently lost my Coros Pace 2 while swimming in a particularly wavy sea. I bought that watch to see if I would enjoy running as a way to stay in shape. It was a good purchase and motivated me to go out and run 3 times a week. Now that I've lost it I'm looking at replacing it with a watch from the Epix series. I would definitely enjoy the more rugged build quality and a bigger screen can't hurt. My fiance has a Venu2s and the suggested workout feature is pretty cool as well. So if I would win I think I would go for an Epix Pro 2 51mm
Exactly what I needed as I’m currently due a new watch. I’ve had the Fenix before and cannot fault it
Great video. I’m a runner only and ended up grabbing the Instinct 2 Solar on sale. I love it. I was tired of my Apple Watch’s Amoled screen that turned on and off all the time. The instinct 2 pretty much just looks like a normal watch with the monochrome display.
Great video - I use a Garmin 630 and it is time to think about replacing it as the battery is not what it used to be.
I have a forerunner 55, the 965 looks amazing :)
would definitely go for the forerunner 265, started running this year, also triathlon training, lookig forwar to getting one in order to get more data out of my training
I have been running with the Polar Vantage V for 4 years now but I'm looking for a new watch and thinking of switching to Garmin. After watching your video, I would go for the Garmin Forerunner 965!
I've been using the Fenix 3HR since it came on the market and it's done the job for all my cycling and running needs, but ready to upgrade to the Fenix 7X Pro Sapphire!
i bought the forerunner 55 a year ago as a basic tracker when I trained for a half marathon last year. Debating doing a full marathon next year so potentially looking to upgrade to a 255 or 265
Awesome breakdown of the very extensive Garmin lineup of watches! While the Fénix 7 has always caught my eye for its abundant features and smaller S version, I think the 965S would be a great watch for me. The in built coaching and newer health metrics would help me to get more consistent and progressive as a runner, rather than relying on my own haphazard plans!
The forerunner 265s looks great for me as I am beginning my training for the Manchester marathon. I have entered for the last 2 years but keep getting injured before it so hopefully it is 3rd time lucky!
In 2019 my friend got me into running. My first race was with him doing a half, which was tough. He then convinced me on my 2nd race, which was a 100k race 😅. Since then, I have loved ultra running and done a few more 100ks. With this I would love to have a watch that can handle this and also future 100 milers! The enduro Pro would be perfect.
I ran my first ever marathon a few months ago and I’m really happy that I got threw it without any problem. I’m rocking a garmin forerunner 45 but looking to upgrade to a bigger one, preferably to one whit navigation. Therefore The 965 would be my watch of choice.
Started off with a second hand Forerunner 745, but thinking of upgrading. Would love to try the Epix on my newfound love for trails
The Forerunner 955 would be the ideal running watch for me - I think pre-planning of variable routes and training plans would help take me to the next level whilst keeping the necessary longer battery and loading up my music as a running companion 👌🏽
I started running properly for the first time this year at 30 after running a company 5k and getting hooked, running a couple of half marathons and signing up for a full marathon in April next year. I've had Apple Watches for years as my fitness tracker but have been looking for something a bit more recently and would love the Epic Pro to transition over to Garmin.
Excellent review, very informative. I think the Epix Pro is the best choice for me.
I would love the Fenix 7. Truly a premium watch. Great video thanks. 👍
Thanks for this video as I'm tempted by the Forerunner 965 but I think it's just too big. Would have to go Forerunner 265
Currently wearing the Venu2s, which I got before I started running and still works great👌🏻. But I am think about an upgrade for one of the Foterunner watches for the additional features 😍
Got myself a forerunner 235 but it’s starting to glitch so having a new watch ready to start my marathon training would be great and also would be a nice early Christmas present from what I call the best running channel I’ve watched, plenty of advice and recommendations. I’ve told others about the running channel and they’ve told others also. So a new watch would be great, maybe the forerunner 265 or 965 would be amazing ( not pink though) 😂
The 255 has been amazing for me! Nice jump up from the 55 but i'm sure the newer features are pulling me in, especially the 265's screen!!!
Good stuff! Been a fan of the FR 945 for years, I would like to get an Enduro 2 soon! The FR 945 cant keep up with me on my 24h+ ultra runs 😅
Have been running for a little while, love the old MIPS screens but been looking to upgrade to the Forerunner 265 of the amoled
Been running on and off for a few years and planning on going for my first half marathon next year. 
I currently have a Vivomove HR cause I like having the analogue watch as well but wanting in-built GPS capability for longer runs, so purely for this would love an Instinct Crossover though can’t justify the cost right now
Fairly new runner here, and I love my forerunner 55 😁 but I like that the 965 has more details on running up hills, and living in Devon, that would be really useful! 😂 Thanks for the great video.
Great video! Forerunner 965 would be my ideal watch with its big bright screen and all the capabilities of the bigger heavier Fenix and Epix watches. If you have one going I would love to help out 😊
Would love to get the forerunner 255. Currently run with my phone but the accuracy of the 255 and the additional features like training readiness and running power make it the perfect option for me. I also like that there's such a big range of activities to select from
I currently have the Forerunner 245 Music, but now I’m setting my sights on running ultra distances on trails the Fenix seems like the perfect match!
Great video! The Epix looks amazing.
The fenix for sure! I have an old vivoactive that I would love to upgrade.
I was gifted a 45s and loved it so managed to persuade Santa 🎅to get me a 255.  I'm about to start training for my first proper half marathon and would love a 965 as I'm toying with multisport events too
I was hoping so hard for this video! Been watching the old one, but missed to many models to make a choice
I would choose the Forerunner 965 personally. I have been lost in the forests far too many times and always wished I had something better than my phone. I also regret not having better statistics for when I spent months hiking every day. Cheers!
I absolutely love my Forerunner 245. Looks like the 255 and 265 are nice upgrades, especially the bright screen on the 265.
Newer runner started in May. The forerunner 965 looks amazing
I’ve been a track athlete for 29 years and started running longer distances a couple of years ago. Currently have a fenix 6s pro, but Love the features of the forerunner 965 and fenix 7!
Nice comparison! I'm thinking about the Fenix 7s, but my old watch is still working. I thought about buying a new watch somewhere next year.
I've been running with my Amazfit smart bracelet and later smartwatch, both of which came with my phone, but I've been meaning to upgrade to an actual running watch for sometime now... Hope I get the chance to play around with that Forerunner 265S 😊
Great video once again ❤
Great video with very useful insights. I'm running now for 9 months and run a half marathon under 1u50. Next up is training for my first marathon just like you and hope a new watch will help me achieve my goal. I have an old 245 and I'm interested in a Forerunner 965 or the Epix not sure which would be the best for me.
This very was very informative. After this review, I'm leaning towards the Enduro 2
This has been a year of growing possibilities in my active life, and I now have my first 12 hour run success. It would be great to say that my active life required the battery life and multitude of options provided in the Epix Pro or even the Enduro 2. Maybe someday! For now, the Forerunner 955 Solar for the stamina feature, navigation, and GPS battery life provide what is right for me now.
Thank you again for very informative video! I personally picked up FR 265 and would love for my husband to have FR 965 instead of my handed over Vivoactive 3 music so he can experience the navigation and amazing battery life.
Forerunner 965 looks like an awesome watch! Great job going through all those features.
i have been trying to build my Aerobic base together with trying to increase my running pace. However I also use HR monitoring for Cycling and Swimming in preparing for my Triathlon Debut in February. Would definitely love to get my hands on Fenix7s for this!
I would go with the Fenix 7s pro since where I live in Sweden it's almost always dark in the winter sp the flashlight would be great as a safety feature when running. I also love the fact that it isn't massive like most Garmin watches.
Cool Video, i am using a forerunner 255 and are pretty on fire with the 965.
Intresting platform to share my running journey. I never ran before in my life but somehow I stumbled upon love for treking the Himalayas and for that I had to be fit. It became motivation to Run and soon I started participating in Runs and started enjoying it. From 5k on Jan 23 to 21K on Oct 23 and currently prepping for Full Marathon. I would have never thought I could do this that too in such short span. Somewhere in between I got Forerunner 245 and it has been amazing, its so feature loaded that I'm still finding some new features every other day but given a chance to win a Garmin watch I would love Garmin Epix pro as it would be perfect for both Running and Treking the Himalayas ❤. BTW have been to two week long trek of Himalayas till now and hoping for many more.
Great video.I would like to see a video on the 965 using navigation and the routes features in actual practice.
I've been an avid hiker for some years, and the Garmin Instinct 2x solar watch would be the perfect companion for my adventures. With its rugged construction, long battery life, and comprehensive fitness tracking features, I know this watch would help me take my outdoor experiences to the next level.
Great breakdown, thanks folks! I still have my AA battery FR101 and computer-on-the-wrist 310. I've had the FR 645 and Venu2. My current is the fenix 6s pro and Ilove it. I'd like the AMoLED Screen but I'm a health care worker & I hike and watersport....I'm afraid I'd scratch it up, and the sapphire Garmins are not in my budget yet. So the Epix pro sapphire is my next watch, maybe preloved, or next year on sale!
Good work....plain and simple Forerunner 265❤
My forerunner 245M has been a great buddy last few years across 3000km running journey, if I'm have to pick one that would be 965 for sure for the premium built and fantastic AMOLED display and great battery life🎉
Been a fan of Garmin for a while, great job going through the range - had my eye on the epix pro gen 2 51mm for a while .. I will take the plunge one day 😂
Garmin forerunner 245 has been amazing after getting into running a year ago. Does everything a new runner needs.
Excellent informative video! I’d love to try out the forerunner 265 🤞
Loved the video. Have a garmin 245 that in one year hav etaken me from unnfitt no runner to doing the 10 k in Oslo.
I currently use the forerunner 255. Thinking of upgrading to that sweet oled display
I'm currently still running without a sports watch (just use my phone with stopwatch), but that Forerunner series is starting to look more and more appealing the more I see/hear of it haha.
I’m a marathon runner, and I would looove the Epix pro saphire 42mm. 
Thanks for your amazing videos!
I got my Epix gen 2 watch and I love it. If I should choose between all the models, I think Epix pro 51 mm would be the perfect choice for me!
Really useful video; I desperately want to upgrade to the fenix 7, so that'd definitely be my choice. Kept looking hopefully at the black Fridays deals but sadly so far out of my budget still 😂 so fingers crossed!
Great video Andy, so many to choose from, I have the Epix Gen2 which does everything I need but I could do with a bit more battery, however I've only had it for 6 months so not upgrading yet but I'll have the Epix Pro (Gen2) if I win!
Have been eyeing up the 965 and 265 for months!
So useful! My understanding on what the series and numbers mean has improved thanks to your video and I now know which watch my son will get for Christmas.
Great video. I have a Phoenix 6x pro sapphire. Great watch. It so good my wife and kids got Garmin watches. I would go for the Epic pro solar  sapphire full size when I replace mine
Using a 45 presently, but I've been dreaming of a 265 🥹 training for my first marathon next year and so so excited for it
I’m itching to try the round trip feature on the Forerunner 965 - This sounds like a perfect way to explore new places when I travel for work!
Great video, lays out all of the differences and features. The Forerunner 965 would be a great upgrade! The full-featured maps are great for navigation.
Really comprehensive video with lots of detailed information. Right now i use a Forerunner 245 but would like to upgrade to a Fenix 7 Pro Sapphire Solar :)
Great comparison and demo. Thanks
Really handy Video as I'm looking to upgrade from my existing watch, swaying towards the Fenix 7 Pro after watching this video given the relatively small increase in cost vs Forerunner 965
I'm currently using a Vivoactive i purchased in 2017. I think the Forerunner 255 would be amazing, as I'm really looking to push myself beyond the 5k in the new year!
Good vid. I do like the bright screens. Struggle sometimes with my 735xt not being able to read it while running . Could do with a bigger font size.
ForRunner 265 would be my pick although I would love any of the watches. I just got into running and don't have one yet so I'm sure any of them would help with my running and tracking. i would be grateful with winning any of them. At first I thought I wanted the best the 965 or one of the outdoor watch but i don't think I need that level yet and the 265 might be the best value for my actual use considering I'll have a phone on me with a map. Great video
I would love a forerunner 965, that screen looks amazing. Currently using the forerunner 55 but with my first marathon in April, an upgrade might be due!
I have been using the Fitbit Ionic for the last few years, but that finally gave up.  I have been researching various smart watches/ fitness watches and have decided on Garmin.  Probably looking at the Forerunner 265 but if lucky enough to win I would opt for the Forerunner 965.
Currently using an older Forerunner and would love an upgrade 🤞🏻
I would love the Fenix 7. Training for my first marathon next year and the tools it offers would be invaluable!
I've been using the venu 2 for almost 2 years but would love to have the 965, I think it would give me the confidence to try running in new places with the awesome navigation features
Got a Forerunner, love an Epic Pro 2
I have the 235 right now, it's old! but for sure the forerunner 265 is my dream end game watch
Have been using the Forerunner 45 with great pleasure. Now I'm thinking about upgrading to Fenix 7 or Epix 2, a couple more nice features and a waterproof watch will make outdoor challenges easier and even more fun
My 245 has served me well! But as I am getting a more serious runner I would like to get the 965 for the bright screen and the suggested workouts to train more efficiently for my next marathon.
Great review. I’m training for my first marathon like you. The forerunner 965 would be perfect for my training too.
That was very informative.  I'm thinking the forerunner 965 is the one for me.
Been running with my beloved 235 for 7 years. It saw me through my first park run, 10k and half marathon.. It’s time for its tired body and elderly battery to relax on display next to my finisher’s medals. I’m looking forward to getting a 965, mainly for full pace pro (who wants to do negative splits pace maths while in zone 4?😅) and that gorgeous screen.
I have been using a Garmin 465 (without music) for almost 4 years, and I'm thinking of buying a Garmin 255 because, in my opinion, it's the best option for mid experienced runner with a good balance of features and battery. I feel the best option for training/running marathons. I hope I have a chance of winning one😅
Thanks for the video. It helped me a lot to understand all different Garmin flavours
Great video. Viewers will get comprehensive understanding of Garmin watches by watching this video.
I currently have the Garmin Forerunner 955 Solar.  A brighter screen would be nice, so will probably opt for the Epix 2 next time.
Currently got an I watch but will definitely be swapping to a forerunner once it’s time to upgrade
I started running/jogging before Covid, but nothing serious. And then during lockdown decided I need to up my game. Worked out a route on Google maps, checked the time I left home and got back on my phone, and that's how i measured my runs. Eventually bought a Forerunner 35 and that upped my running. Also got one for my wife.
Recently upgraded to the 55 and what a difference. HR monitor a lot more accurate and so much faster. Can't imagine how the top of the line watches will perform. 
I will probably look at something like the Fenix 7 when I upgrade eventually, by that time there will probably be a Fenix 8. Haha😂
As a runner who is looking to run the first marathon I would like the forerunner 965! Thank u for the video and I wish everyone good luck!
I’d love the epix! Currently got an instinct so this would be a massive upgrade!! 🤞🏼🤞🏼
fenix7 pro is definitely my favourite, not that bothered by the AMOLED screen, but being able to map skiing, swimming, gym, and hiking etc... and that amazing battery life
Love the content you guys put out! Have been a pretty standard runner using a basic Fitbit tracker for a while, up until now. I have recently become more serious with running as my main form of exercise and wanting to upgrade to a Garmin. It will help give me analytics to help improve my run times and keep me on track as I have signed to a half marathon next year. I have watched a lot of your content of both the 965 and the Epix Pro (Gen 2). You guys make both sound sound really attractive, I don’t know what one to pick. I would love to win the giveaway for either of those watches so you can make the decision for me haha. Keep up the good work all!
I've been running for about 8 months now. I never knew that something this advanced was possible! Having a watch map your route round trip!!? Definitely a watch I'll need to save up to buy! I'm training for my first marathon and doing it basically blind (I do have an old Samsung watch) has been difficult. I'll be looking into a forerunner!!
Hello  thanks for the effort.  I don't have a Garmin yet however it's what I want, and you are the first of many that have broken down the types of Garmin's in a way that makes sense to a newbie like me.  Nothing against other channels they are all great, but this review laid out the ecosystem in a way with price points that helps me make sense of it all, because it's confusing. 

If  the give away is still available I think I'm open for either a Venu 3 or forerunner 55 or Instinct series.
Great Garmin watch comparison, very helpful. I would really like a top end Forerunner or Fenix, they're all superb tbh. Keep up the videos and merry Christmas! Regards. Graham.
Currently using forerunner 955 but tempted by venu 3s for everyday use when not running
Great video, really helpful. My first Garmin was a Fenix 5s. I loved that watch, but it's getting long in the tooth now and technology has moved on, but I still really like the appearance and functions of the Fenix and Epix watches. As a runner in my late 70s, I would love to have the Epix Pro gen 2 for the amoled screen, to help my old lady eyes see my stats clearly when I'm running (can't wear reading glasses to run or I'd fall over!)
I’m a teen and can’t wait for begin my training for some upcoming races! Didn’t like using my dad’s old Apple Watch and can’t wait for a refresh but might have to wait a while. I think the forerunner 225 music would probably be my favourite out of all because of the sick features and the fact you can play music from the watch which I think is so cool as well as suggested workouts on top. Hopefully will be able to smash out some PBs with a new watch sometime! See you on the trails runners!
Very interesting. I'm the proud owner of the Garmin 245 and it's got me through quite a few marathons. I'd definitely be interested in an upgrade the 965 looks fantastic.
I currently own Forerunner245 and it has changed my life and health hugely. Since the purchase, I have done a half marathon and signed up for my first full marathon in April 2024. I love that the watch can keep motivating me everyday. Forerunner965 would be a fantastic upgrade as I love this map feature! Mapping for a run, especially a long run, has always been a bit difficult part of my trainings. I would be thrilled if I will be able to own this super watch!
I just started running abort six months ago, and to my surprise, I completely fell in love with it. I’m currently using my Apple Watch for all of my runs, but would love something with a better battery life and some more running statistics, so I would love an upgrade to the Forerunner 265. As always, great video, I absolutely love your channel.
I've always been eyeing up the Fenix 7s - the sheer volume of multisport options for my other pursuits to running (like rock climbing etc) just make it such a complete package and the sizing of the s watch would fit a lot better on my small wrists
Great explanation on the wide range of watch. If I could choose a watch I would go for the 965  for navigation, suggested workout with goa, all the metric removing the guessing out of trainingl, the nice screen,...  epic gen 2 pro is really interessting but not sure about the weigth.
I trained for my first marathon completely without a watch...seems insane now. 😀 Love a watch that can be used to listen to music or podcasts on, really prefer leaving my phone behind for runs. The Forerunner watches look super cool!
I’ve been eyeing the Fenix 7 Pro for a while now.
Very good summary of all the options garmin has to offer. Thank you!
What a great review, thanks…I have been using Fenix2 since year 2015, so far besides the bluetooth pairing issue with iphone, the rest are still working well. The durability & endurance level are really good. If possible, would like to have wither forerunner or Fenix series, where it surely will helps & motivate me further on achieving my running & cycling goals.
I have the Forerunner 255s currently and would definitely recommend it for any runners. Would love to win a Fenix 7 pro s to upgrade to include running power metrics and better multi sport capacity!
Currently running with a garmin 245 but would love  to upgrade to a garmin 965. And then my daughter could have my 245. Good luck with your marathon Andy you will smash it
I currently use a Fenix 6X Pro (having moved from my Apple Watch SE due to poor battery life on my long runs).  I love the fact I a tonne of battery life and can pair my Shokz open run headphones and listen to Spotify playlists on my long runs.  I turn 50 next month and have entered my first ultras next year (RTTK in June and RTTS in July).  One of the main reasons for switching to the Fenix and of course the multitude of data points captured to help monitor training progress.  I am seriously considering the Epix for the fantastic screen, especially on these dark morning training runs!
Great summary of all available watches, especially with all the different models. I'd really like the Epix Pro.
I want the epix pro (gen 2) sapphire
It seems like the overall best one and could be great for helping me plan since I just started running and get exhausted in a few minutes
I got the Forerunner 55 as soon as I started running this year, I have my eyes on the Forerunner 965 now.
The details here are brilliant! I'd love a small 965 or 265 solar.
Loved the vid, I am in the market and have watched hundreds of videos it seems, but yours is quality and to the point. I wish I could afford the higher end Garmins but sadly, there is no correlation between sem-avid runner and income :P - that being said, I would love to win any of the high end watches or the 265. Thanks!
Nice video. Very clear. I like the running channel very much!
This video could not have come at a more perfect time! 
Been using an Apple Watch for all my runs but I will be running the 2024 NYC Marathon and was hoping to purchase a new running watch to aid in my training!

In addition is the Epix pro (2nd gen) worth its price compared to the forerunner 965. I only currently run and workout. ?
fenix 7 Pro is an amazing watch with great battery backup, also solar charging features. I love to have this one as I'm looking forward to having one in future. That will be my first smartwatch too
Hi great overview with good narrative
Hoping to run my first marathon in 2024! I’ll be picking up a garmin to help me get there, eyeing either the forerunner 265 or venu 3!
Hi Guys, recently discovered your channel (and podcasts!). 
I'm a newish runner looking to get a FR165. But dont normally wear watches so dont want anything too expensive in case i hate it. 
Can you compare the new FR165 vs 55 and 265. 
Thanks,
Mark
Great video, would definitely be the epix for me!!!!
I would love the 965 for my upcoming marathon! Will be my first one!
I do a lot of biking, trekking, mountaineering, wakeboarding, snowboarding, so I definitely need something like the Epix Gen 2 to stay durable through everything
no but choosing a watch is soo overwhelming. for my last birthday i decided to get myself new running shoes and a watch. that was in september and i still havent bought the watch 😂 
also, the round trip routing feature is really cool, no need to spend time planning routes in strava anymore. i would definintely trust Andy and choose the watch he's using!
The forerunner 965 would be perfect for my half marathon training, which starts in January! 🤩
I am branching into tri this year and currently have a 645M. The ability to switch from swimming to cycling to running at the touch of a button will be very useful and ideally I would be getting myself a FR965.
Love the functionality on my Fenix 7 - but there are times when its tricky to see the screen (ageing process sucks!). I'd be keen to try a 965 to see how good the AMOLED is, I've heard such good things about it.
I completed my first half marathon this past October and I am currently training for a full marathon by next fall.  The Fenix 7 Pro would be my watch of choice.
Amazing video awesome details about the full watch range! been running for about 9 months absolutely addicted and currently have the forerunner 55 amazing watch and has helped me loads. Must admit the forerunner 965 is a beauty and would love to upgrade to that soon :) love the map feature and the possibility to have music without bringing my phone
What a good video. As a samsung watch 4 user, battery life is killing the mooi sometimes. I have to charge every day and loose the data. My first marathon in September I barely had my strava run (4h 48min 42 seconds)

Forerunner 965 would be helping a lot to improve for my next marathon in March. (Or the Epix). I love the amoled screen when I search them online 

Keep up the good work

Greetings from Belgium
Great video Andy. It’s bonkers how many Garmin Watches there are, isn’t it?!
I’d love the Epix Pro Gen 2 47mm please. 
Good luck with the training.
Thank U for explaining everything about all types. I has active S4 and died in salt water. I am running and I don't have the watch to measure my timings and distance. I am pretty sure that runner 55 will be great for me. Thank U so much
I am into long distance cycling ever since covid started, I am planning to take part in a few ultra distance races next year and would like to own an epix Pro Gen 2. Also I have a big hand so would prefer the 51mm version :)
Maybe it's finally time to switch from Coros to Garmin. I would love to upgrade to the Garmin Forerunner 965 or 265. Awesome video!
Epix pro gen 2 with amoled. Currently have fenix 7, but that screen is just so nice 👍
Would opt for a 965 or epix pro. With age a more readable screen is important.  Round trip routes sounds useful!
I started running this year after looseing 24kg weight. And so far i don't have a good running watch. But i love the gadgets and looks of the fenix 7s. Hopefully this will be my first garmin watch for getting better in running. Loved the video.
nice  summary of the options!
I've just started my running journey, and have goal set a half marathon for next autumn and a marathon in 2025! I blame the running channel for these goals! (Affectionately, of course.) I'd love to add Garmin's help to my training, to keep me on track.
Moved from the FR55 to Fenix6X for the mapping, but as a data geek would love to try the 7XPro or Epix for some of the new software features.
I'm currently looking out for a Forerunner 255 Music ... this is especially because it's the first one in the Forerunner Series with music integration which is very important for me on my runs.
I currently have a fenix 3 hr, which i got when iy was first released and have worn every day for nearly 7 years. 
The battery doesn't last that long anymore but it used to be amazing for multi-day hiking trips, and the altimeter registers all my runs as having more than 100,000 feet of elevation gain, buts it's still kicking. The sapphire glass is completely scratch free still!
Would live to get a fenix 7 pro solar sapphire so that i can get a big battery, sturdy watch to last me another 7 years.
I think that a Garmin 265 would be the perfect choice for me. All the features that I need and that AMOLED screen looks amazing. 👍
The Forerunner 965 looks like an amazing watch.. 🤞🏾🤞🏾🤞🏾
Thanks for the video. As a runner, I really like what the Forerunner 965 provides. However, I do like the features of the Epix Pro and how it’ll look for my (casual) professional life for everyday wear.
What a lineup! So many options but the video helps narrow it down! Forerunner 965 looks very nice!
I like the enduro 2 details features and data, also wanting the super rugged aspect of the instinct. Every time I am looking at the selection of watches I feel like there's not "THE ONE" watch that would do it all for me. I guess the Fenix really is what I would end up getting, once I can spare the extra cash. Can't wait to pair it with my HRM Pro Plus.
At least this video is covering some stuff I haven't seen before.
Currently enjoying the Fenix 6 but battle to read the display without my specs 🤓.  Amoled screen on the large Forerunner 965 sounds like a winner…
My Forunner 55 covers all my bases atm. Just placed the 265 on my wishlist, having to stop and pull out my phone to navigate on new routes can be annoying. Love the display quality
Started running after a horrible ATV accident in 2008. I really enjoy the sport and I belong to a running club. I've used the Garmin products my whole running career so I know how reliable they are. I currently own a Venue but would like to upgrade to the Forerunner line, maybe a 265 or 955.
I had the Chance to try on and test it for a few minutes the forerunner 965. More functions I need, I love it. Maybe one Day.
Garmin 965  for me,  after a season running I think it he would help take running to  the next level , also I quite fancy varying off the road and colour mapping would definitely help me do that.
I've been following the running channel for quite a while. I wish I could get epix gen 2. That would really help my goal of running a marathon. I live in the United States. Not sure if you're going to ship the watch from the UK. Thanks. Love your videos
I'm definitely interested in the Epix Pro (gen2) 47mm. It would be the perfect watch for all of my running, strength and hiking activities.
I would really like the Forerunner 955. The MIP screen and flat glass profile for a screen protector would be really nice. My 8 year old vivosmart hr is ready to be replaced and i am looking forward to my first half marathon the upcomming spring.
Great video! I currently have a fenix 5 but would love the fenix 7 or even the 965!
Didn't realise how many watches garmin actually had!
My favourite would be the fenix 7 since I do quite a few different outdoor sports and would love the battery life for going camping!
Forerunner 955 has been amazing for my needs
I was a 100m-200m sprinter when I was young ( sad violin in the background ) , stopped due to various health issues that made me slower, didn't even run since I was devastated by it. I have recently started running longer distances after 12 years of not really exercising regularly and it have helped me massively to improve my mental and physical health , as well as finally getting over the fact that I am not going to be an elite athlete and it's fine!  I am loving running again and that is what is important! Currently I am running while holding my smartphone and tracking everything on strava, from splits , to hills , to 25k long runs. I could use a forerunner [insert whatever number here] to help. Don't mind the amoled screen or the music even though that would be super cool. The entry level 55 seems to have most of the features needed to compete from 5K to 100K ultramarathons.
Hello! Thanks for reviewing all those watches! I have been doing sports all my life but have never get a hand on any smart watches. May I ask what Garmin smart watch is suitable for mountaineering and at the same time able to upload stats on Strava? Would appreciate if any could recommend me one. Thanks!
Thanks for this summary! I’ve been using an Apple Watch for years and I’m ready to upgrade to the Forerunner 965.
Running with the Forerunner 55 and more than happy, but if you are offering a chance  to upgrade 😂 then the Forerunner 965 looks amazing. 
Great video showing all the differences in the watches.
Very interesting review! The 265S are definitely on my list for Xmas
I am very interested in the forerunner 255 watch because I think it will be the most suitable for my running. In a few months I will run a marathon for the first time, you can wish me good luck and I hope I will be able to use the watch. 😊🏃‍♀️
Great overview Andy, would love to own the Epics Pro 2!
Started running a 5 minute warm at the gym last year. I say running, couldn't even last that long. This year (at 46) I ran my first 5k, then completed 6 parkruns since and even even managed 5k training runs. All the while using my garmin fr55 to look at the numbers and see the slight improvements. Looking at trading up to the FR265 to get even more useful data as I push on to the goals of a 10k (next year probably now) and my 3rd and 4th Hyrox events in January and March. I'm definitely not a runner runner but more hybrid than anything but still the forerunner range is more than enough for my needs.
Just got a fenix 5 mainly for the training plans but would love to try the forerunner with the bright screen!
Great overview, who knew there were so many Garmin watches?  With that screen it would have to be the Epix Pro for me.
The mapping feature of the Forerunner 955 and 965 is definitely the biggest sell for me. I currently have the 745 and have been using Garmin coach to train for for a 5k and is currently training for a 10k
Great explanation of the range Andy. 965 would be my choice. It has all the features but not as heavy or bulky as the epix or fenix lines.
There are so many watches!! I don’t have a running watch right now and I think the Forerunner 965 would be great for my runs! I do Parkrun a lot and think this would help me get a PB! I watch all your videos and listen to the podcast!🏃🏃🏃
Cheers for the video Andy. I was looking at getting the Fenix 7 Pro as a Christmas present to myself but after your video I don't know what I'll get 😂
Anyway, if you're giving a Fenix 7 Pro away, I'd be a delightful recipient 😊
Great review of all the watches.  I use an Apple Watch but would like to switch over to Garmin.  I keep looking at the Forerunner 965, Fenix and Epix versions, and think I’d want the 965.
I have had a Garmin 735xt for 4 years and absolutely love it. I may upgrade at some point, but I recommend getting a Garmin it's well worth it.
The 965 sounds amazing! I'd love to try one. I also like your funky yellow strap 👍
For me the venu seems amazing having a watch that looks sleek for work in an office while  stil being amazing for training and actually having such a good battery life compared to other lifestyle watches( im looking at you pixel watch😂)
Great video, I would probably go for the FR265 for now.
I have the Fenix 6S and would love the Epix Gen for its AMOLED screen, everything is clearer and brighter with it.
I would like kick up myself to start with Ironman training and It is impossible without good Garmin 😅
I’ve fallen in love with Garmin forerunner 965🥰
It would be life saver for me since I’ve got lost almost every time I went to the longer run😅
Thanks for the video,really helpful 🥰
Useful insight. I'm hoping the Forerunner 265 drops in price on Black Friday. A free one would be best ;)
I'd love to upgrade from my 255 to the 7 Pro Sapphire for my next multi-day ultra. 
Better maps, better battery life and the stamina metric would be super handy
I have been running since August to lose weight, and to gain fitness. I have achieved my weight goal in September to my surprise, and I fell in love with running since and I have started training for a half marathon, but I don’t have a smart watch so I run with my 📱 I would love the 965 forerunner I feel it will help me with my plans for next year since I don’t have access to training, facilities or coaches the suggestions feature will help me a lot. 
Thanks for a great content as always, and congrats for the winner if I don’t win❤
The Enduro 2 is teh dream watch, it would be wonderful to have. Anyway great breakdown, it' the most complete video on the matter
Have the venu2, but definitely been eyeing some of the new features of the venu3.  Also been debating on the runners and outdoor ones for some of the features such as maps and training daily suggestions.
I’m running my first ultramarathon next year so I’d pick the Fenix pro 7 for the battery life and the maps
I am looking for a watch that I can take with me for mountain biking. I wanted one with maps like Fenix or epic. This was a very useful video..🎉
Great video, my fav has to be the forerunner 965 😍
I really want a Garmin watch.  Especially the solar 955.  Really keen on the running assist feature but just tracking my overall health is what I want most.
I bought a Forerunner 945 a few years ago and it's been great.  If I was going to get a replacement, I'd go with an epic pro Xfor that sweet amoled and touchscreen
I think I'd go for the 265s, I have small wrists and some of the other watches just look too clumsy. I'm also interested in the suggested workouts to see how they can improve my running and overall fitness :)
I have been runnimg on and off for about 2years, and i just finished my first half marathon last month. I got a second hand vivoactive 3, and compared with my old forerunner 35 it is a serious upgrade! But I am thinking about a more running centric watch like the forerunner 265...
3 years ago I was doing my research on which Garmin watch I'd want to buy since I was really into running and would like to improve my runs. I ran at 4:30/km on short runs and was finally dipping my toes in trying out a half marathon. 

Then the pandemic happened.


Now, I'm slowly pacing myself to get back to my old PR if I can without injuring myself. Forerunner 55 would be great to get me back on my feet again and be consistent enough to run my first half marathon and reach 5min/km again
I really love the 965! I have Polar now, but definatly thinking about upgrading and switching to Garmin
Great insight to the differences of all the models.
Currently, I've got a forerunner 245 and would love to upgrade to a 965 mainly because I love the running stats and would like more and a 7 day suggested workout
I'd love to get my hands on the Forerunner 955 Solar. The incredible battery life, plus all the advanced features would make it perfect for road and trail running, and would help with training for my next marathon.
I've been using the Forerunner 55 for 2.5 years now and I've been really happy with it. Forerunner 965 would be a great step up.
The Forerunner 965 is gorgeous! That would be my choice ❤
Great video. So many watches. Think the forunner 965 l looks best replacement for my forunner 735.
I am eyeing the Forerunner 965. Finally shifting from an Apple Watch to the Garmin family. First marathon on Sunday and I wish I already had the Garmin metrics working for me.
Very interested in the Garmin watches, have enjoyed running for a while but just started getting into tracking my progress (doing some indoor runs with Zwift) I think the Forerunner seems like a good choice.
Ive had the forerunner 245 for a couple of years, it does a lot of what I need / want it to do. Definitely looking out for deals on the 955/965
Epix Pro gen 2. Not only for my running but also with my other outdoor activities.
The Forerunner 965 looks like an amazing watch for all kinds of runs - im really into Data so it would be a perfect match for me!
I have the fenix 7S & absolutely adore it! My husband has an awful "smart watch" (won't name the brand) but I'd love to gift him a new garmin especially with Xmas coming up. Either the forerunner or the fenix series would be perfect, were both runners 🤞
965 would be perfect to help me train for my first marathon. The navigation will make it easier to explore new routes whilst doing my long runs in London. It's so easy to get stuck in rut doing the same km run, I feel this watch will help me shake it up. Thank you
Great vid - I like the 4Runner 965 😊
Would be the Fenix 7 for me - great for golf as well as running!
Currently have the 735xt, would love the 965
I love the forerunner range, and love my 265. I have always donated my old garmins that i upgrade to newer runners because I know the difference having a good watch can make but also that its a big expense early on. I'd love to upgrade to the 965 from my 265 mainly for the added navigation and mapping capabilities. I use the navigation I have a lot but would like to have the clearer maps when exploring new places
I have been a jogger for the last couple of years and used the forerunner 55 but as the battery life slowly begins to dwindle and I discover the joys of triathlon I would love to upgrade to the forerunner 965 :)
Would love the 965 but it’s definitely on the more expensive side! Currently have a 245 but want an upgrade as I’m looking at some longer distance races in the next year and want the extra battery life!
love the running channel
Young runner here! I currently have the forerunner 245 and am heading into a promising track season. Any upgrade, whether it be a 255, 265, 955 or 965 would be much appreciated. Generally looking for all around improvements with better insight into training plans, sleep, heart rate data, and vO2 max specifications to improve my training.
I’d definitely want to upgrade to the Forerunner 965 - it is beautiful 🤩
That 965 does look nice with the new screen, just abit too pricy at the moment. Thanks for the review
The forerunner 265 would be amazing for Xmas 🎄 🤞. Keep up the great content
2 runs 🏃‍♂️ a week for me, using my Fenix 5x.Hope to start running more and will upgrade to a Epix 2.
I would love the 265 ! I'm still on my forerunner 35 since I've started running four years ago, it's maybe time for an update
Have come back to my old Garmin Fenix after exploring what apple had to offer. The mileage, battery life and practicalities can’t be beat imo. I also use their dive series for scuba diving which performs really well. Would love to experience the running series as I’m transitioning into running longer distances (marathon and more triathlons next year).
Awesome video breaking down the difference between each series! I have been using Samsung Watch 4 classic and have times it ran out of battery mid run which is super annoying! Epic pro seems like a good choice for me for a definite upgrade! Cheers!
Forerunner 255 would be perfect to replace my aging Garmin watch as I train for my second Ultra. The Pennine barrier 50 miles on May 4th.
I would choose the Fenix 7s. I love the look and the functionality of it!
Very detailed video. Thanks for sharing. I'd really like the Fenix 7 Pro in the X size. I like the solar charging and that it's a very big watch. Most of the other watches are too small for me, even though I don't have a big wrist (6 inches). I just like large watches and they don't make them big enough 😁
What a great range of watches! I’m on my 3rd Garmin, having started with Forerunner 910XT, then 920XT and now using the Fenix 5, maybe it’s time for an upgrade? I have my eye on the Forerunner 965, for sure 👌🏻🙌🏼
Have been a fan of the fenix series for a number of years now. Currently, I have the fenix 6s, and it’s serving me well. The main thing I wish it had is full mapping capabilities. I really like that it comes in a smaller size for my tiny wrists!
I’m currently using Fenix 6 and I’m thinking about upgrading it to 7. Those hills and endurance indicators looks interesting as I’ve just started preparations to next season and I’m about to go through a lot of hill and trial running sessions…
Great to see all the different watches. I run with a Fenix 6 which does me. The 965 is the gold standard, but will it make you run faster???
27 yr old. I work in construction and currently use an Apple Watch(series 5). My wife and do Spartan races and try to fit in a half marathon when we can. Currently just training to fit into my tux for my wedding! My Apple Watch just doesn’t last the day for me. Early morning runs and a long work day tends to just drain my battery so I constantly need to turn off my watch screen so it can last me all day. Definitely loving the Forerunner 955 I think it would help me stay on track and will actually use the watch!
Nice video! I already own a FR 955, but I'm ver interested in the Fenix 7 Pro, as I like the MIP display and it's more premium design than the 955 has.
I would Love the forerunner 965, preparing for my first marathon age 18.
I currently have a Vivoactive 4 , had it for almos 2 years now i think. I´m a tech-geek but also a student and training for a 32km trail run. I am very privileged to have the watch I have now, but I feel that maybe there is something better for me. I am also partime in the Norwegian Home Guard and think that I have more use for a more robust watch. My training week consists of everything from intervals to 10-25 km long runs, HIIT, strength, swimming and road cycling + skiing and slalom these days (I live in Norway after all). The goal is to do Ultra and maybe try Triathlon. I think the Forerunner 965, Fenix 7 Pro, Epix Pro (Gen 2) or the Enduro 2 would be a great match for me. (Excuse my bad English, it´s much easier to talk than write).
The fitness smartwatches from Garmin like the Vivoactive series are absolutely fine for runners that just want the basics whilst running - pace, elapsed time, laps, heart rate etc.  I have used a Vivoactive 3 for years and it is fine, though I guess I have never really pushed the battery life as I am really only running up to half marathon distance.
"Heellow " Andy and team.Any forerunner series watch(may be 55 or 265).
 Late again to an opportunity but it takes nothing to try I am not a pro  just a teenager have been running for 4 year but never more than 3 km until some days before when I completed my first 5k in arround 33min.
Just wanted an anchor  to keep me going the studies are getting harder.
Nice video, I expected to see the Descend or similar also mentioned in the video. So, in other words, yes I'm going into a direction of needing the sort of diving computer (as an amateur breath diver), but diving happens more rarely for me than e.g. hiking. And for that reason I need at least a water resistant watch and indestructible in terms of hiking or climbing. And for that reason I'd pick  "Fenix 7 Pro / Sapphire" or "epix Pro 2 / Sapphire", due to the battery life and a nice scree, and it seems like it's really indestructible. And perhaps I'd be tartgeting the "X" size :)
Thank you for the helpful video! Is the 965 the only watch with the round trip feature? Is it also the only watch that offers turn by turn navigation on the watch during a run or do others offer that?
I am an Indonesian doctor, 35 years old,  started running regularly about a year ago. I am having garmin venu sq 1st generation as a gift. I am having hard time to pace my race. I am thinking about upgrading to forerunner 265. I hope to win the watch from the running channel. Thanks for the video.
I'm really interested in the Forerunner 965 as I love the map feature and the outlook of a week of suggested workouts.
I use the 955 solar (swapped it for my old Fenix back end of last year) , I dont care about the fancy screens , I want the most metrics , in the lightest package with the most battery life . No complaints at all
Thank for this. My forerunner 235 has just about come to the end of its life, so I’m shopping for a replacement but it’s not easy to choose. Wife has the Vivoactive 5 but I’m used to the features of the forerunner. It’ll probably be the 265 as I’m not sure I can justify the jump to the 965!
Nice overview of the different watches. I've got a Garmin Fenix 6S Sapphire, which I really love. If I were to buy a new one today, I would probably just upgrade to the newer Fenix 7 model.
Definitely interested in that Epix Pro
Hard to choose but the fenix  pro is really beautiful and IS full options!
Considering switching from my Apple Watch. Interested in the epix Pro (Gen 2) – Sapphire Edition | 51 mm
I like to have the Epic Pro Sapphire! The 965 properly good enough for me but I did like it to be more metal, raised bezel to be more protective in the environment and also the LED flashlight for safety and useful when needed!
Garmin 965 for me!! 
Thx!! ;)
The 965 with all its features would be so helpful with my training. I’m hoping to do a marathon next year and having a watch with all the help of a running coach is my ideal coach.
For me the forerunner 965 will be perfect. Sometimes i run on a new route and i have to check my phone to almost every corner where to turn in :D  so the navigation is very important for me.
I have been using the Vivoactive 4 for a couple of years now. Time for some well needed upgrade. Vivoactive 5 looks great, but all thes features on the forerunner 965 are tempting 😅
I could make good use of the forerunner 965 😊!!! The screen looks so good and the mapping features look great.
The Forerunner 265 seems like the perfect fitness watch for my needs, with its advanced running features and smart notifications.
Been eyeing the forerunner 265 for a while but i find i hard to justify the expense since my polar m430 (5 years old) still works.
Only started running in late May this year. I purchased a forerunner 245 music which is a great bit of kit but the newer models do have a few more features that would definitely help with my training in preparation for next year's London Marathon. I would have to go for the forerunner 965, why wouldn't you!!
I'm on my second iteration of the Vivoactive with a 4S and love them. They do what I need them to do, and don't look out of place for everyday wear, so I would opt for the 5S 😊
I'd love the Forerunner 255S. I have the Forerunner 55 already which I really like but the chance to upgrade to help my training for my first marathon in October would be fab!
i really really want the Forerunner 965, 99% of the Epix but lighter, cheaper, and bigger screen. thanks for the video!
Came back to running after years of despair due to trauma and circumstances and really think I would love to have that Forerunner 965 to assist in my training for half marathon and maybe even marathon.
Andy, what a great video! Nailed it with so much data talk and still hooked on to the end 💪🏼 I would love to win a Garmin watch. The new generation of Fenix 7 Pro is also with Amoled screen? That one could be nice or the forerunner 965 like you self 🏃💨💨 I'm only running and walking, so maybe that's the one 🤩 Or the Epic are Bada.... 😂 So hard to choose 😅
965, training for my first marathon next year (hopefully a trail one) also hoping to enter the Scarfel Pike marathon 🤞🤞
Epic Pro 2 is the one I would go for... a great watch and helps with varied routes so you do not get bored. If you are like me and a little directional challenged, it would stop you ending up on a motorway with a just your running gear (yes this did happen). The health snapshots and brighter screen are a great advantage with a reasonable battery life.
I have been using the Enduro 2 for the past 10 months since stepping up to ultra distance races and it has never let me down. The battery life is amazing and it’s surprising just how useful the flashlight is. the only downside is the screen brightness which could be better however I guess that this would compromise battery life.
Ive been eyeing the 965 and fenix 7 for quite a while now. If I had to chose it would probably be the fenix 7!
I'd love to have the Forerunner 265S. That AMOLED display 😍
PACE PRO which can adjust to true track inclination and pacing strategy and "how to tackle the hill preference skewing" is a unique selling point which I (hill and trail lover) truly miss on my POLAR watches. POLAR offer only a crude "distance and race goal time input" then guide you on one pace only no matter what hill lies in front of you, not even a positive/negative splitting option. I'm curious about the COROS watches. Heard only good things about them but I've neglected them somehow.
Forerunner 965. Will be great addition to my running. Because my fenix 6 didn't gave me whole week suggestions.
Got Venu 2 and looking at using it to the max and then maybe switching to 265 or epix…is it worth if I just run and hike? (Winning here would mean I could try the epix ones 😂)
Currently wearing a fenix 6 pro , had it for about a year now and never let me down , runs , cycles , triathlons , marathon (one) would quite like the Fenix 7 pro
The one thing I miss with my 245 is the full mapping for when I'm leading runs for my club. The turn by turn stuff is excellent but mapping would be even better. If I had unlimited budget I'd go for the Fenix 7 for sure.
Great love them all specially the solar ones I am still on Apple Watch this would be a good change and option for the future.
Another great video.
In the coming year I am training up for daunting 96km race. I have never really had a running watch but I think having am in the market. A fenix 7 solar would probably be perfect as it would provide long battery life and all the training metrics I would need.
great video thanks
Great guide 💯
The 965 seems the most well balanced would be great to have the mapping and routing capability especially in a new city to be able to get back to a start point and select distance without have to manually plan the route, that feature edges it above the 255/265 which are otherwise great watches. Would have been good to hear if the SPo2 metric is available in all the watches.
Newbie to smartwatch and this blows my mind
I would go for the Forerunner 965, it really looks amazing! The features and capabilities are very nice!
Not mentioned as it isn't a running feature but a big selling point on upgrading from the Vivoactive 3 to the 955 was the golf feature and all the preloaded golf course. 

I love all the extra running features on this watch but also getting the golf options was awesome.

Likely should have gotten the Fenix 7 Pro X for the larger screen as I need reading glasses but I can make out enough of the data on the 955 to justify not spending the extra money.

I did have an Apple watch between the Vivo and 955 but the battery life was horrible.
I would choose the Epix Pro gen 2.  Mainly for the combo of battery life, screen, maps and flashlight. Good for running and hiking.
I currently use a Garmin 235 which I think is great but do find the screen a bit dull and hard to read sometimes. Therefore I would love the 265 with AMOLED screen
A Fenix 7 Pro X would be slight upgrade on my slightly broken 735XT 😂 Very informative video as always Andy. Thanks.
My favourite Garmin watch is the Apple Ultra. Absolutely love it. Though I'd love to try a Garmin, my go to would be the Forerunner 965
As a fairly new runner, id love a forerunner watch, especially the 965 because i just really find the features fit my needs and interests best - the navigation, the data are all things that would make my life easier!
I’ve had two Garmin VivoActive watches and loved them but now I’m running more I am thinking the extra features of some of the Fenix watches would be useful.
I’ve been looking for a replacement for my Apple Watch because the battery life is just terrible. I ran my first marathon earlier this month and my Apple Watch was difficult to use once your hands got sweaty. I’m leaning more towards the Forerunner series and this video truly helped narrowing my choices down.
Training for marathon with my forerunner 35, so an upgrade to the 965 would help a lot, but I cant give that too much attention since Im the one running not the watch :).
I have a 235 which is still working, but man that 965 looks nice.
Love how many of the Garmin watches have a S version!! I've got the 245 currently but excited to upgrade to the 265S whenever I get a good enough excuse :p
I'm currently using a Garmin vivosport band and I like how superior its GPS capability is over my Android phone.
What I'd look for in a smartwatch is the GPS-accuracy, a bright and sharp display, and the ability to play music during my runs over Bluetooth. (Also maybe having eSIM option so I could leave my phone home - I like having it with me for any emergency calls if needed.)
I guess for most of these features an epix Pro or a Forerunner 965 would be the best choice, I'd be happy to win either of them. :-)
I'll have the Forerunner 965 please. The round route feature is something I'd love, I hate doing out and backs and running somewhere I've already been.
As a newbie I started with an Apple Watch then switched to a humble forerunner. But I feel like I now need more detailed metrics and maps, would dream of getting an epix pro 47.
Hey friends at the running channel, great video, sometimes with so many models it can be confusing! I would love to have the high tech stats that the forerunner 965 S provides but can't afford it. Hopefully I can be the lucky winner! 🤞🤞
I like fenix 7  out of all watches. The titanium metal and graphite band looks sleek ❤‍🔥
I currently have a 255, which is very good.  The Amoled displays look really good.
Great video. Got a fenix 6 at mo. Would love to upgrade to fenix7
Want to buy my wife Garmin watch as a holiday present - still can't figure it out.

She uses Fenix 5S at the moment - and I am leaning towards epix (Gen 2) – Sapphire Edition – 47 mm, in white colour.

Or would be same Pro version better - what is the difference?

Any suggestions are appreciated.
I have a Fenix 6 Pro. As I am getting old, I find it difficult to see some information while running. So, I think I need to change it for the Fenix 7 X.
On occasions I do still rock up to parkrun with my Forerunner 201 and I do get a number of strange looks. 😂 Being a bit of a data geek though I do like my newer Garmin devices, especially those with amoled which I can read more easily than MIP. For that reason my next watch will be the Epix Pro.
Which watches in particular have the UltraTrac mode? Considering a FR965 but still not sure if I should bump up the budget a bit for more battery.
I would go for the epix pro. Have a fr965 and have no complaints
I think the Instinct 2X is an impressive watch! Loads of features and a pretty nice look too!
To be honest I would love to win a Fenix 7s. Right now it's my dream watch. As a student money often is tight so you work with what you have. For me at the moment is my phone. This year I ran my first two half marathons which got me hook to running. Thanks for the overview
As a begginer runner, i think the forerunner 255 would be perfect as it also has music playback capability
I'd choose the Instinct line all day every day. The Instinct 2X is my perfect utilitarian watch (for my use case)
I currently use a 245, but would love to upgrade to the 265
After having had surgery due to an ACL tear, I'm moving away from soccer and looking to pick up triathlon when I'm fully recovered. The Garmin Forerunner 955 would be an amazing watch the help me along my triathlon journey.
Just turned 53 today and have been running for a little over a year now.  I have been using my Apple watch up to this point, but would love a Garmin watch!  The forerunner 965 or 955 would be amazing.
Because I am training for a marathon at the moment, the forerunner 965 would improve my training routine by fare. Thanks for the nice content all the time and the giveaway
I am torn between Fenix 7 pro, Epix and Enduro 2..
Main goal is to track sport activity, MTB, SUP and windfoil mainly; maybe some hiking and swimming.
All in all I would opt for the Enduro 2 as a watch to win :)
As a happy coros user, I am occasionally tempted to try another garmin, to see if they are any better than the awful fenix 6.
I would be keen to try an enduro 2, as it is the one that competes on battery life. So for the perspective of a giveaway, that's definitely the one I would want 😊
I love my 245 but would like a upgrade. Has really helped my improve my running. Only thing it is mussing for me is Hit.
The fenix 7 pro seems amazing. Packing that much technology into a watch.
Hi im 19, bookworm student and started running a year ago to challenged myself what im capable of, my stamina improve a lot from pace 7 and now im at pace 3-4, last week i joined marathon 8km and im secure a place, really look up for latest garmin forerunner 265 but have no budget😂 because im still student😊😊
I’d go for the 965! Would be a nice upgrade. Great video. Thanks
Looking at the Garmin FR 265 please - just a runner so the FR meets all my needs. I have an older version that is losing its battery now so high time for an upgrade and keen to check out the new screen.
Love my 265s. Only regret is not getting the larger size. I wish that it had drag and drop mp3 and wireless charging capabilities, though.
Enjoyed the video although I note that you didn't quote the battery life of the 265? If I were to win one of these the FR 965 would be my preference.
Long time Garmin fan.  I started with a Vivoactive 3, then a Venu and now a Venu 2+.   I'd love to have an Epix 42mm now that I am moving from half marathons to 25k (first one in August) to my first marathon next fall.   The more sophisticated training features would be amazing as would longer battery life for longer runs.   The AMOLED screens are a must for outdoor activities.   I have a fitbit I wear as part of a US medical study and I absolutely cannot see anything in the screen in bright daylight.  It's just pointless until you get indoors again.
I'm thinking about doing an ultra at some point  but I'm terrible at navigation.  So thinking I need the forerunner 965 or the enduro 2
I have the Venu 2 plus... Very nice! And I run and practice MTB on weekends... Nevertheless, I've seen some videos that shows all the metrics for the forerunner... I really want one of these! And as I don't like MIP display, I'd really love to have the 965❤
oh wow, all of those look great. I would love the Forerunner 965 (or honestly a Fenix) — it's definitely time for me to upgrade from my apple watch!
I would go for Garmin Forerunner 265, Because it has all the features I use. Currently I run with Coros Pace 2.
I am a big fan of hiking, running, off-road, gravel bike. I think Garmin Enduro 2 would be perfect for a person like me!
I wish I could get the Forerunner 965. It looks incredible!
Currently have the fr255.  Love it but wouldn't mind the better battery life of the fenix series watch
I have previously had a 245 (I think), and if I would go for a new watch I would probably go for the Forerunner 965. A bit bigger, a bit easier to use on the run, more advanced and refined features are the main components for me making that assumption.
i love my fenix 7 pro but i would love to try the epix pro i want to see how the screen looks! :D
Hey there, great overview of the Garmin product line.
I would be really happy to win the Fenix S, fingers crossed 🤞😅
Would love the Venu3, would be my Best Christmas gift in many years. Since childhood 😜
Am in my forties and only running for 2 years but done loads of half marathons, would love a Forerunner 965 to take me to the next level for marathons and ultra trails
If I could get the FR955 Solar then it would be a dream since my mum is going to get her knee surgery soon so I can't afford to spend on watch now and my current FR945 had suffer infinite boot loop. I've just started running again 3.5 months ago with my FR945 (owned for 3 years 1 month) because I've been having trouble sleeping. Now my sleep had improved a lot and at the same time shed around 6kg so far. It feels great to be back on my local running track but I really did not expect it to quit on me so soon.
Good stuff!
Wanna get back to running and looking for a watch that will help me achieve my goals. I think the Forerunner 965 will be the best one for me.
I’ve never been into tech for running, but since I got my 245, I can’t run without it! I’m still clueless about all the fancy options, but would love to upgrade to the 265!
I never would want a flashlight in a running watch until now! Fenix 7s Pro Sapphire Solar!
I’ve always had Fenix watches starting with the Fenix 5. Would love to have an Epix pro mainly for the amoled screen,
Good video but sold the Instinct short. The instinct 2x has most of the features of the fenix 7x apart from colour screen and maps for half the price
I've been running with my Forerunner 55, I guess it has everything I need. The only feature I would like is music, so i'd like to up grade to the Fr255 music
After I just ran my first Half Marathon, I am really looking into upgrading my old Fitbit to something a bit more. And I really want to give Garmin another go now that they've introduced more size options (I've got a very small wrist).
I have an older foreruuner watch, but i would be very interested in the forerunner 965 with amoled display and  the host of additional metrics as my ageing 50 plus years eyes would certainly appreciate the clearer brighter display.
I am a 29 year old who this year completed my first 100km. I’m looking to gain UTMB stones this year and build up to UTMB eventually, the enduro watch would be a game changer for me!
I've been running for about 4 years now, but a bit inconsistently (various injuries, taking time off, etc.). In fact, I'm injured right now, but it's not actually from running - I played too hard with my dog and twisted my ankle 😂 Anyway, for me I think the forerunner 265 would be ideal, as I'm not super experienced with running nor do I need every fancy feature or many metrics. But I definitely like the idea of reliable navigation and the suggested workouts!
Out of all of these three Forerunner 965 looks like the one for me. I’ve got the Forerunner 45 and would love something with more metrics to assist my running
I’ve only been running about 5 years, but in my experience the Forerunner series as been reliable for me as a college runner. I don’t really need all the features of the newer Forerunner series, but a new watch would be nice. I currently use a 245, but I haven’t found it to be that accurate distance-wise when doing workouts on a track. Any longer than 2 miles continuous in one effort or rep and it starts clocking me as hitting the 1600 mark anywhere from 10 meters to 80 meters early. Also happens on occasion when doing 1600m repeats. Not the biggest pain but it’s a tad inconvenient to have to manually lap it slightly after I cross the line when it auto-laps early. Heard that the 255 has more accurate GPS, so wouldn’t mind getting something newer than the 255 to have something even more accurate. I also tend to avoid trail runs because the GPS dips out at random so I’m not getting the most accurate distance or pace.
Great video!
I got a Forerunner 255 this year and am really loving it (can get quite obsessed about stats!). For an upgrade, I wouldn't mind getting a Forerunner 965 ... ;-)
All of the Forerunners or the Fenixes would be great, but really - it is the Epix 2 Saphire that is my choice - what an incredible watch! Fingers crossed.
Fenix 7🎉
Curious about Forerunner 965 and Epix series
I've always looked at the fényx 7 as a potential upgrade, aiming to do more trail running. But the Enduro 2 is absolutely bonkers ! I'm afraid that kind of metric would give me the urges to do an ultra marathon. Which im definetly not ready for...
I am a Mexican college track athlete and I have never had a garim, I have been watching them for years and I think they are the best smartwatches on the market. Any watch would be great but my favorites are the 965 and the Epix pro.
I am currently training for my first iron man triathlon and having a good watch would help massively
I would go for the Epix pro of the Fenix. As someone who works in the outdoors and regularly finds themselves in harsh mountainous environments, or paddling on a range of rivers I'd love something that would survive a busy day at work, as well as something that could record lots of stats of my runs and walks! I still love my Forerunner 45s, but it is looking a bit battered after several years of constant daily use. :)
I use a fr945 at the moment but would like to upgrade to a fr965 as I am really happy with the forerunner series.
I would go for the 965. Has most the bells and whistles but for less than the epix line
Currently have the instinct solar but really want the 965!!
I have enjoyed using the forerunner 245, but I would really like a bigger screen. I like the forerunner range, and the 965 would be my choice, and it would give me that extra incentive to go for that run.
Started running 4 years ago, come on quite a bit since but my trusty Garmin 745 I bought back then is starting to die a death (battery life is fading and now starting to show low battery when I have 50%+ left 😂) could definitely do with an upgrade to the 965.
Epix Pro (gen 2) Sapphire 47 mm looks so nice!
Epix Pro Gen2. I like the built in flashlight and the amoled screen.
I started running 2-3 months ago and it has changed my life for the better. Before I was always working out but I was unhappy with my condition. Even though I was fit, I always felt something was off. 2-3 months before I started running, I took a rest from working out and lost significant amount of muscle. When I was ready to get back, I wanted something more challenging so I said why not run? Within weeks I lost 6-7 kilos, all my clothes started being large on me and the smaller size clothes I was keeping but not wearing in my closet became perfect size. First time I started running I could barely run for 10-15 minutes, 3 months in and +1 hour runs with 5:30 pace doesn't even bother me. Currently Im just below 25:00 5k and my goal is to get sub 20 soon and have enough endurance to run a half marathon.  Dream watch? Forerunner 255-265 would get me through everything I need.
Epix Pro ❤
It’s that 265 for me 🔥
Very useful video. My Vivoactive 4 has just died after 4 years or so - I think I'll go for a forerunner 265 next.
I would go for the 965. Epic screen with all the features I’d ever need!
currently on apple series 9. not that much convinced, because it got so many features that i dont use 😅. I have had a look at the fénix 7 Pro recently.
I've got a Forerunner 45S which is good but often slow to lock on to GPS.  A modest upgrade to the Forerunner 55, perhaps?
I'm all in on the Fenix 7x pro sapphire. I like running, but I love OCR and there is nothing tougher than the Fenix.
Although I'd love to have the forerunner 955 or 965, I'd say the 265 probably has the best value for money for the type of activities I'd usually do, which is mostly just running. My longest run is 15k at the moment, and my neighbourhood is pretty hard to get lost in, so the simpler map feature is plenty!
Great video. Garmin's lineup is so confusing I've got purchase paralysis.
would love to have the garmin epix 2
I’ve been eyeing 965 as my brain just works off numbers 🤷🏻‍♀️ first marathon next year so I’d put it to a good test 😅
I’ve got back into running again in the last few months and I’m currently using an Apple Watch but the battery is starting to run pretty low on long runs and I’m starting to doubt it will make it through a marathon. I’ve been looking at the Epix as I quite want to try getting into trail running too.
Currently have the Fenix 6s which has been great getting into running. Though I'm still at the stage "this sucks and why does it hurt so much" bizarrely I'm still out 3 to 4 mornings a week as I'm training for RTTS 24 and RunSandringham 24 hour. The only thing that worries me about my current garmin is the battery running out during the events, which is why i'd probably choose the Enduro 2 :)
I’d go for the forerunner 965, has everything I need as a multi-sport athlete
I've been thinking about an upgrade from my Apple Watch. Out of this line-up (since I don't have to pay 😂), it's got to be the epix pro. The AMOLED display, the mapping features, the multisport capabilities, it just ticks all of the boxes.
My fitness status is little bit weak. So i'm trying to improve that. But I can't track my progress. So I always think about garmin 255 or 265 watch. If have a chance to have it, that is gonna be the best thing I have ever happened in this christmas.
Forerunner 265S! ❤
Love long Outdoor activities,  Instinct2x Solar would be perfect to rise adventures to the next level. :)
Currently running with the 245 but would love the opportunity to upgrade to the 965, particularly love those AMOLED displays. Plus id get to give my brother my 245 who has just started running and achieved his first sub 30min 5k
The cream gold Fenix 7s Pro is so darn pretty I would love to take it along my adventures 😍
I would go for the Instinct 2X solar for helping running at night! With the lamp it’s pretty convenient, I’m debating between the Instinct 2X and The Forerunner 965
I also am coming from an Apple Watch. I think the Forerunner 965 would be the easiest Garmin watch to transition into. I love the design!
I'd love if the Instinct 2 X had onboard music, it would then be my perfect watch. Audio prompts to keep you on target, music to keep you motivated and garmin pay for the coffees and cake after your parkrun 🤪
Nice compessive video. Would love to replaced my scratched fenix 6 pro for epix L to take on my runs, swims rides or any other adventure. Taco
in Forerunner 965 ❤
Just getting into the world of Ultras at the young age of 53!
Would love the Garmin Enduro 2.
Just ordered a Garmin GPS smart watch that was not on your list - the Descent Mk3i (43mm). It's basically an Epix with a dive computer :)
Garmin Forerunner265🔥
I’m an experienced runner that ran in college and took a break from running after college. I have recently started training for a marathon and am looking for a watch that could help me train for it. I think the Firerunner 265 would be the watch I would choose if I won based on the features and what I’m looking for.
I like that with Garmin everyone can find best fitting piece. I am happy with my Fenix 6s Pro, but would be interested in new features on Fenix 7 pro  or Forerunner 965
I started with a Forerunner 235 which my daughter-in-law has now inherited.  I now love my Forerunner 255, but if I were to go for an upgrade, it would be the Forerunner 965!!!!!!
I would love the mapping of the 965, but would I be able to justify it? Maybe it would inspire me to sign up for some trail events.
forerunner 965 would be amazing just because navigation  for round trip route
I have an old Apple Watch 2 but it really isn't enough now that I've started training for a half marathon. The Epix Pro size M would help me incredibly especially with all the trails nearby me
The 965 ❤❤ I really like the petals on the Lilly too 😂 but for all the important stuff, 965 would be my pick. Great explanation and the features all look really lovely ❤
I would love to have the forerunner 965 or the epix pro. I love garmins watches and would love to upgrade!! :)
I'd love to try out the Forerunner 965 at Rotterdam marathon next year ⌚️
I would go with the instinct 2 crossover (solar would be ideal). I like the look and the long ladting battery 👍
I have started training for my first marathon, which should be a familiar feeling Andy. Though I have nowhere near your sports history. But after four years of enthusiastic cycling, including a Tour de France Grand Fondo and the Coast to Coast in a day, I felt I wanted a running challenge again. So a marathon it is. I also know that my Apple Watch is not going to cut it at a marathon. So I have decided to probably move to the Fenix 7 Pro  instead of the Apple Watch Ultra. Garmin has so many more interesting features for training, that it seems to be a much better partner. Plus I will get to discover all of those great new functions Rick shares on the podcast. So those are my thoughts at the moment. And if I would win it through the channel, I’d be willing to do a video with it on my first marathon for you. ;-)
i’ve only ever run 5K and 10K, and this year I’m taking on my biggest objective yet, which is a 20K trail race (😬) and I feel like the Garmin 255 would be the perfect accessory to support me ! 🎉
I need a rugged workhorse with all the most important features, so I’ll stick with my Instinct Solar, thank you Garmin. 🙌🏼
I've been using a FR945 since it was released, and love it, but I've had my eye on the Epix pro gen2 for a while. just really cant justify dropping $1k.
I've currently got the Forerunner 245 music, my dream upgrade would be the Forerunner 965! 🤩
Using the FR245. Used it for a couple of ultramarathons but after a few years the battery is struggling. Either I need an enduro 2 or shave a few hours off my time.
Finnaly someone made a video explaining the basics of every model. Didnt know newer models had flashlights... Anyways, the epix 2 looks great.
Ive started runningh with classic smart watches but  now I fallen in love with running and my old watches usually die during my long runs😢…so dear Santa I wish the forerunner 265 for my future university sport carrier and I would be finally able to sign myself for full marathon without excuses!!  PS:I would be the happies person on the world ❤❤❤ Thank you for helpfull video!
I've been running here and there for a few years and would really like to take my running to the next level. Would love to win the Forerunner 265s 🎉.
Definitely need an upgrade on my forerunner 55 hopefully Santa 🎅 brings me 265 🤞🏻😂
Great vid
Fenix 7 Pro looks so nice!! 😃
i would love one of the forerunner watches. I currently don't have a smartwatch to track my runs
I would love a Forerunner 965 - the combination of an amoled screen with premium features looks very impressive to me.
Relly difficult choice, but if I had to have a new watch instead of my Garmin 735, the the Fenix 7X pro Solar edition or the Enduro 2. Problerly will be first choice.
Huge fan of long battery life so Garmin Enduro 2 is my go to.
The Garmin 965 would make a lovely addition to my wrist! 😀🤞
I'd love to get the forerunner 965. I have a the venu 2 and I do kinna regret having the running specific features that forerunners have.
The Fenix 7 would be perfect as I am wanting to train for a sub 3 (hopefully in Berlin) but if not elsewhere maybe in the UK somewhere then once that is done, i'm gunna target UTMB in the next 3 years max. 😵‍💫
Garmin watches deliver quality. I am still using my 920XT after 6 years, still great battery life, and continues to get updates from Garmin. The downside? I don’t have an excuse to buy a new one as it keeps on going strong!
I have not yet owned a watch for running but I like the Forerunner 965.
Currently have the 255 but would love to upgrade to 965
965 🙏🏻 that amoled screen 😍
Nice run through of all the watches. Winning a 965 would be sweet.
I wanted a 965 or 265, but the size is preposterous on my wrist, so I went with the 265S. So far, I've loved it, but I do wish they offered a 965S.
I would love to try a Fenix or something with all of the fitness profiles plus solar!
I am to say the least big into running lol, I currently just use the basic Venu Sq, but looking to upgrade to the 265, or 965 mainly for the maps, as I do a lot of longer runs on the trails at times, but also hate taking my phone with to only check maps 😂
I’m really interested in the Garmin Forerunner 955. I think the data from running is the part I am looking for the most.
I've been training with a forerunner 245 music, but I'd love to upgrade to the 965
I am looking to upgrade from my fenix 5 to the fenix 7x pro solar, so it would be great to do that for free. Thanks TRC and Garmin
Looking to upgrade from my applewatch. Want something mallet geared towards running but would also like for HIIT & golf use. Any ideas?
The Forerunner 965 looks to have amazing mapping features!
would love a Forerunner 965! Currently running with an Apple Watch 7 and definitely noticing how much data I'm missing
I would choose (like to be prized) with a Garmin 965,  or Fenix 7 Solar, because of these watches bright screen and navigation capabilities.  I race in the 50-55 age category.  This year I’ve set PBs at distances 5km, 10km, and 7 miles.  
    I’ve been experimenting with triathlons in the last couple of years, so a Garmin 965 would be ideal.   
   I love the out doors,  skiing ⛷️ once a year, cycle and run regularly through the year and often go walking/hiking.   I’ve also been known to roller blade.  Therefore a Garmin Fenix 7 Solar would get well used.
Great video
hi thx for the video, but its still a tuff choice ultimately I'd like the Enduro 2 but its a bit pricy and I'm not sure if I'll ever run a 250 miler to really benefit from it, then theres the Fenix options and the 965. Now if I was going fastpacking for say 5 days I'd defiantly take a power bank with me and being in Norway I can't rely on sun so then the solar it not a benefit so I'm back to the cheaper brighter 965 as its got 31 hour gps and I can charge it at night with my power bank and its the most affordable one
Newbe hear ready to ditch my Apple Watch for sure. Not yet sure which one is for me but leaning to the venu 3. Bit sure if the Forerunner 965 also shows messages and pictures in the messenger. Also how it performs in the gym. And does it also has the new gen heart rate sensor? Great video thank you
I'm doing an ultra next year in the Welsh mountains, so for me i'd love the mad watch. :-)
Garmin Forerunner 965 looks very appealing for me 🤩🤩🤩
I love me Garmin 945, but I really like the look of the new OLED displays :-)
Just got my 965 two weeks ago and I couldn't be happier! Do I need all of the features? No... But the screen is so damn pretty...
The Forerunner 965 is perfect for my goal of getting a sub-3 marathon for 2024!
Been chasing a sub 20 minute 5k for a while now and I feel like I’m almost there :) I would probably go for the forerunner 255/65 as they both have all the features I would find interesting/useful without going overboard.
For maps navigation which one is better between forerunner 965 and epix gen2 pro?
I started running this February, and I'm still not sure my running style is. My longest run was 16km, which I  run in 2 hours and 15 minutes last month. I planned to cover 21km before I reached 50 well I an 48 years old this year. I'm happy to try the Forerunner 965 due to is coaching system.
Our household has a Forerunner 55 and 245 and we'd love to win a watch for an upgrade! These models lack the Fenix 7's capabilities and features, and it'd be a great upgrade to have the strength workout tracker.
I think I would like the Forerunner 965 it has all the features I would ever want
As an occasional scuba diver I'm looking at the Descent Mk3. Pricey but has everything the Epix has + a dive computer
The instinct 2 is pretty rad!
I'd love to get an upgrade on my Forerunner 245, preferably the 955 or 965
I would like to have the instinct 2X. It seems quite hard enough for my multi activities!! Thanks
I would choose the Garmin Enduro 2. The extra battery for long trips would be very useful
I’m quite an experienced runner and I’ve enjoyed the forerunner 255, but looking at the 965, that could be a great upgrade. From the giveaway of course 😅
I’d love to have a Fenix 7S Pro - Sapphire Solar. Out of interest, what is your wrist circumference as a reference point? Thanks.
I started running again after 6.5yrs due to two tough pregnancies. I started up gradually and I've been running for 9weeks now and reached my 5k goal of under 30min. Now I'm amped to keep going! I used to do a 5k under 19min 😅 I lost all interest in running and now I have refound it. I live on a small island so travel is our escape and different terrain and locations is the challenge! I'm a 42 yo mom of two Beautiful girls and I need to keep up with them 😂 I would love to try a fitness watch, especially with maps and a light (when its dark is when I get to go out). So I would LOVE a spoil like the Fēnix 7 pro 42mm (s).
I would love to give one of venue, vivoactive, forerunner or even Fenix or epix to my girlfriend. We always do all sorts of activities together. Kayaking, hiking, swimming. She used to have a smartband, which unfortunately broke down. Since then she doesn't have any fitness tracker. She says that she will buy a Garmin watch when she will be able to afford it, but no luck so far.

Before her smartband broke down she used to run a fair bit. Maybe not on a competitive level but it made her happy to see the progress. Right now she doesn't run at all. She says, she doesn't feel the motivation, when she doesn't have a tangible visualization of her progress. :/
i had a fitbit charge 3 but it broke, now i'm swithcing to the Vivoactive 5 for a couple reasons:
- downloadable music
- screen
- price
- open water swimming
I've never had a running watch before but I've destroyed a number of Fitbits. I think the Forerunner 55 fits my needs well but all of them sound awesome.
Don't currently use a watch of any kind. I do a lot of walking and hiking, so the Instinct 2s seems best, but I am constantly trying to get back into running, so I think, for me, the Forerunner 55 is best for price and function for a low-level runner.
I like the smaller size option of the 255s because I have a small wrist but I am starting to do more trail runs so I think the 955 is going to be the better option for me...just wish it came in a smaller size.
Not sure if the giveaway is still going on but i started running once my college soccer career came to an end and currently us the apple watch series 4. I’ve been looking into watches and really want a watch from the forerunner series preferably the 965 or 955 solar but just can’t justify paying those prices on my college student money. I’d be cool if the giveaway was still going on and maybe i won but none the less a great video! And yall have inspired me more to get a new watch! Love the channel and i love running!
I like the looks of the more basic models,  but i need buillt in gps so i would choose Instinct 2.
I currently have a Forerunner 945 but it's not holding its charge so well these days. I would love an upgrade to a Fenix 7 pro.
Ive got the epix pro, its has an ecg feature as well. Its onoy officially supported in US for now, mainly due to needing regulatory approval. But you can use a gps spoofer and a vpn to make garmin connect think you are in the US and you cam enable it. With my mum having atrial fibrillation its a god send for me to be able to keep an eye on my heart rhythm.
Started running 2 years ago as a way to lose some weight, next year I'll try my first 100k ultra marathon(Beskydska 7), so Enduro 2 for that would be probably perfect, but I think my trusty fenix 7 Pro will handle it near identical!!
I picked up the Instinct 2 a few months ago but didn't realise how great the Garmin ecosystem is. Had I known I would have invested a bit more and got the fancier Fenix 7X
My choice would definitely be watch from Fenix series or Enduro2. I'm a very outdoorsy person and despite my age (65 y.o.), I still enjoy outdoor activities. Also, advance health features are important for me as well. Especially at my age. Large screen makes a difference too. My eyes are not, what they used to be :) I live in Poland and needless to say, I can't afford any of those watches :)
Epix pro!
I really like the sleep tracking on the vivo and the venue 3. But I think I like the Enduro more.
Just finished couch to 5k not too long ago and aiming for the 10k in London in Feb. Partner has also got into running, trying to convince her to get a garmin, maybe a 3s or 265s, instead of her fitbit which doesn't have GPS. One day maybe she'll get an Epix gen2! Out of our price range for now.
I’m new to running and have no smart watch or fitness watch. I’d love the forerunner 55 as an intro to the range and help with my 10k training
I would go for the 965 solar or the Fênix 7 pro to improve my running skills on nature ou city  like  jeep i like all terrain
Would love the epic pro!
I’m still using the Apple Watch SE gen 1 but would love to be able to upgrade to the epix pro
I would choose the Garmin 265 because I have had a 245 for three years and I would like to upgrade to a similar watch with a better screen.
Epix pro gen 2 will be great in my upcoming ultramarathon. Since this is amoled, I can see it clearly
Would love the new Fenix ❤
Great video
After many years of running and chasing the latest tech (that I can afford) I’ve had the 310XT, the 755 and currently the Fenix 5. I find the metrics on the Fenix to be pretty unreliable as far as temperature, altitude, etc. go to the point where I’ve had to learn to ignore them. The temperature reading does tend to be about 2 degrees higher than actual so I can get a rough idea but when my watch tells me that I started my run at 50m below sea level and finished at 30m below sea level (which is actually at the same place) I can’t hold any value to the information until I use Strava to correct the readings.
I’m really keen to get the 965 for the new screen, better map navigation, and all of the new metrics offered compared to the Fenix 5 but I’m finding it very difficult to justify the price tag to my bank manager, justifying it to myself is easy. 😂
This was a very insightful video. I would love the chance to win the forerunner 965.
Just got the forerunner 265S. It plays music but would have been nice to have an option to pay less for a non music version like on the forerunner 255. I would love a FR965 if I win BTW
I’ve recently started running again but i also love to go hiking and would therefore love to win the fenix 7s pro
The Forerunner 265S would be something for me, as Im heading for my second Marathon year.
The Forerunner 255 would be perfect for me 🚀🏃‍♂
Would love the forerunner 965
I currently use an Apple Watch to track runs, but it’s not great at linking with Strava for things like laps and splits. I’m due to run 135miles in 5 days for charity in April and am considering a garmin as a more accurate tracker of distance/pace etc. which garmin do you suggest is best? I’m an “entry level runner” on average normally run a couple of 5kms and a 10km a week
I would go for fēnix7 Pro, because of it’s sleek design - fits all whether wearing a suit or pijamas 😂 and of course the battery life that what matters.
Started to run few months back and still looking out if I need a watch or not.

Maybe that's my chance to win one héhéhé
The 255 is the sweet spot as a pure running watch. Good price, 99% of the features, no Amoled nonsense.
I keep looking at the Fenix 7X its the only one I can read without my glasses as long as I only have a maximum of 3 fields 😂 my glasses steam up and I can’t see a thing and I just can’t use contacts 😢
Currently running with a third hand forerunner 235 having damaged my  premium Garmin watch so I would love the opportunity of getting a 965 to replace it just before Christmas
So many options! Been thinking about getting the 55 but now the 255 also looks great. However, the 965 would be a dream 🤩
Is the fénix 3 good?
Hello i am a triathlete i have never used a garmin watch i would like to maybe try and use the garmin fenix7 solar 47mm!! Wish you all luck and goood runs
Enduro 2 battery life 😍
Had an apple watch which broke last week😓 would love the epix as a replacement that better suits my needs😁
Would love a fenix 7 solar 😍.
Having struggled with being overweight most of my life, I started running. I've done a 10k last year a half this year, I'm booked into the New Forest marathon next year (thanks for the inspiration from your video) and planning an Ultra for my 60th in 2025. 
The Enduro 2 would really help (currently using a Fenix 6 which I love, but like me it's getting on a bit) 
Thanks for the video they are great.
I’m the owner of a 47mm Garmin Epix gen 2. A gift for my birthday (which was yesterday). I’m only watching these videos because I want to find out how this thing works. I’m a 10-20 mile per week runner. Longest run 5 miles. A fenix pro 51mm would be my choice.
Would love the Epix gen2. Bit out of my budget though!
I love my Fenix 6 pro. Would you love to upgrade but just can't justify the price 😮. Either way, I'd be lost without it 😉👊🏻
I am actually a person that do so many sport in the day like outdoor running and hiking and indoor fitness and I am the kind of person that who doesn't charge his watch a lot I like Garmin Fenix 7
The forerunner 965 has to be the best watch for a runner! I think that’s the next watch I’m going to buy!
Nice video
I would love to upgrade my Amazfit to an Epix! Been eying up Garmins for ages….
I bought the Coros Pace 3 but the heart rate sensor was broken. I tested it a few days and wasn’t so happy with some features. That’s why I want to upgrade. I can’t decide between Forerunner 965 and the Fenix 7 Pro Solar. The latter is on sale for 550€. I want to track running but also other sports.
Using an Apple Watch for my running as of right now, I’ve been wanting to switch to the forerunner 265 since it came out but mentally having a hard time dishing out that $450 for a new watch. A garmin would improve my running immensely for Philly marathon 2024 !
I would choose the best only, its either EPIX gen 2 pro, ENDURO.
Definitely the 965 ! As someone who has just started running after a bet with a friend to run a marathon in 11 months time - a watch that could help with training would be awesome!
I would love the Forerunnner 965 to help get me back in shape.
Great breakdown of all the features! I've had my eye on the Forerunner 965 since it came out, but I just can't justify spending that much money on myself. I always end up buying the version that's being replaced to save a bit of cash. Such is the life of a teacher/student. Ha! *day later edit* I think watching/commenting on this jinxed me. Just realized that the Vivoactive 3 no longer keeps accurate time...? Synced. Updated. Did all the things. Sigh.
Since I stared running again after becoming a mom via an super long IVF traject I really want to step up my game and use the forerunner 265 to be able to run 21.1K next year
Wanna get back into running and think Forerunner 965 will be the best option for me.
With the goal of running my first marathon in 2024, a fore runner would be a great asset❤
Hi everyone, would all the notifications of the 955 or 965 work on an iPhone? Thanks
Amazing video! This channel helped me discover my passion for running and I am forever grateful. I currently have an old Apple Watch and have been thinking about switching over to Garmin for months. Winning this giveaway would mean the world to me. I am also in the US Navy so the durability would be great. I am really interested in the forerunner series specifically the 965. Thanks for helping me on my running journey.
I’ve been running with an Apple Watch for the last 8 years and after really getting into running properly this year I’d love to train with a Garmin forerunner 265s as I think it would really help me with my half marathon training for my half marathon in February 2024.
I’d love to get the Forerunner 965
I would love the Fenix 7 Pro Solar. Saving up for one as I have 3 Ultras planned for the comping year, and my Samsung Galaxy Watch 4 simply won't cut it. Pick me! Pick me!
I would love to have the Epix Pro gen 2 ✌💥
I have a fenix 6 pro and love it but I wouldn't mind getting the fenix 7
@runningchannel where was the winner announced? i've been checking literally every day and haven't seen it
I love my Venu 2 sq. The only thing its missing is Pace Pro.
Being using the VIVOACTIVE 4S for the last 2 years. It would be a great improvement to get a FORERUNNER 965 ;)
I’m looking at the 955 for the maps so yeah, send one of them over please
Currently have the 245music and interested in the epix pro 2. Enjoying how light the 245 is as i only take it off when i shower, so i'm curious how comfortable the epix pro 2 is as a daily.
I’d love to upgrade to a Fenix pro or an Epix pro. My forerunner 245 is showing its age, and is surprisingly limited in what mountain sports it’ll actually track 😢
I’d love to win the 965, though I’m tempted to buy a 265 as it’s a bit cheaper and probably has enough features for me really!
I'd go for the fenix pro in S or the epix pro. probably the epix tho. the enduro one looks cool too...ahhh i love them all. I mean i cant afford any of them tbf :D  ok epix it is
By watching the video Im very interested in Instinct 2 ( 50 mm ) , but I haven't ran with smart watches or any watches on my wrist I carry My phone and before getting a phone I just check the Wall clock for time when I leave my room for running, just like that i am  28 years old,
I’d love a new Garmin watch! So here’s me crossing my fingers!
I wanted a garmin forerunner 55, but they must not sell it in Canada as I cannot find any. So I have a Polar M2
Love my FR965, but wouldn't mind a Fenix 7 pro :)
I would love to have a Garmin for runner 965 ...for my half marathon training..hope i get a chance to win one
Garmin forerunner 965
My long term goal is to complete the OCC during UTMB week, So the Garmin Enduro 2 would be the perfect training companion, during my training towards that goal. I hope to reach the goal in 2025.
I bought a 965 a couple months ago ,but im not so sure it will hold up well for 100 mile ultras, do you guys have any suggestions? I dont care about features as long as it holds up ,im a simple man
I'm currently on my second Garmin, a  Forerunner 255. It's great for runs (obviously), but also hikes, cycle and cardio. I dont know anyone with a Garmin who isn't impressed with it!
I would choose forerunner 955 ❤
Being an owner of Fenix 6, i would really love to upgrade to fenix 7x pro
There is so much choice in the Garmin range. There really is a watch for everyone. Unfortunately, I have multiple personalities, so i still can't decide which watch is right for me. 😂
Nice
Fenix 7 pro, sucker for that flashlight.. 😂
It’s the Fenix 7 pro for me.
Need a watch to replace my suunto ambit2 thats dying. 265 or 965. Even the Fenix 7 as a prize would be excellent
Does the training and coaching from the forerunner also carry through to the fenix and epix ??
Looking to upgrade my 5 year old 235. 965 would be my go to if price wasn't a factor but 265 is more of a viable option for me.
Garmin Fenix 7s
Forerunner 265S is my dream watch. I bought second hand Fenix 3 as my first sport watch and that is so big and heavy I can't wear it on my everyday life.
If I could, ask Santa to upgrade to the 965. I have a 945 that I got it second-hand for £100 and was great for getting into running to take me from 1km to 5km, then 10km to finally 21km, being half marathon now concidering upgrading to help me achieve a sub 2hour half with the extra peace pro and hill pro features to help me get around the hills of abp southampton half marathon under 2 hours. 😂
Hei guys. Witch watch would you reccomend for tracking steps,light running and biking? On journey to become a fit person, 20 kgs down till now 😂
which one is right for me? fenix 6.  which one do i want? enduro 2 😭
I'd go with the Venu 3S to fit my my skinny runners wrist!
There are so many watches! I think I have found one but it's hard for my wife...maybe the 265s ⌚
Have been using my Apple watch to track my runs but think its time to change to a 265 or a 965
I mean if it's free, is there any reason not to go for an epix pro? 😆
i would love to have the 965
The garmin 265S caught my eyes - especially after my 645 music has met its demise!
I would love to have a forerunner 965 to replace my Apple Watch Ultra as I really miss some metrics
Garmin is one of those companies you just have to respect, they know they're the best at what they do. I love how expensive their devices are, and how little they seem to care about packaging lol, their products speak for themselves
Epix Pro sapphire would be my dream watch
In your opinion which is the best for someone who goes to the gym and does HIIT?
I am looking for a new watch for a long time now and have my eyes as a runner on the Forerunner 265 because of the amoled screen, the battery life and the light weight. For me the maps feature in the 965 isnt important.
Epix Pro or 965 if you're not into compromises
Fenix 7 Pro all the way getting lost on Cumbrian fells is no fun ( or is it ? ) this time or year the Garmin map functions are really good for fell running.
I'll take the fenix 7s
No Marq?😄
I'd want a Fenix 7 Pro Sapphire Solar, so nice with titanium bezel and grey case😃
Forerunner 965 for me please!!
Are the running watches suitable for swimming as well?
A Venu small size sounds fun!
New to running and the Garmin watch line appears to have more diversity then the average smart watch market has to offer.
I’d love to win the Forerunner 55!
Good video, but your overview is incomplete - you have forgotten to mention Garmin Marq series watches! Thats a garmin luxury sport watch addressing runners who love to have an estetically pleasing watch with luxury finisch.
I think the 265 sounds the best
Even a serious athlete doesn't really need to look beyond the Forerunner 55 for a high quality athlete watch that tracks all the necessary data.
Garmin Forerunner 265
Gamin 965 would be just perfect, but the smaller size though :)
This is useful because there are just so many Garmin watches.
One of the big misses on the Forerunner 55 is that it doesn't have an activity for strength training. Dunno how they missed that
Would love to win a Forerunner 965 to help me with my training for Berlin marathon next year! 🤞🏼
Bought a chest monitor in the sales to get most of the features of a new watch without buying a new watch!
Just finish my 5K 3 minutes ago and got this video. Really interesting!
Forerunner 265 that's the best watch for my capabilities
I'm a beginner but I wouldn't pick the Forerunner 55 because I know I'd just want the model one or two up the range within a week😂
From that range I’m most interested in the Enduro 2
Wheelchair user, would love to be able to track my pushes per day would love to win the vivoactive 5
If I had to choose the ultimate Gamrin watch it would be the Epix Pro Sapphire, the bigger ones are too big for me so it would have to be the small.
Instict 2 is perfect match for my way of life, 50% runner and 50% hikker....
Money no object (or competition winning) I’d go for an Epix Pro all the features and battery life I’d ever need with a great display.
I'd love to win the Forerunner 965!
I don’t need too many apps tbh, but I would love a watch with a tracking map/routes feature. I hate running with my phone ☺️
Currently training to go to the 2025 U20 european championships in the 5k, and a good running watch would be nice to have
Fenix 6x pro is still top considering its price.
I would like to upgrade my forerunner 245 to the forerunner 965 👌🤞
Fenix is derived from Phoenix a mythical bird that is born again from the flames and is symbolic of a new start. I have an old iPhone that I have to run around grasping to look at my times and data - it’s battery can barely last a Parkrun and I have arthritic knees that compete with the phone to see which will fail first. I need the cleansing fire and new beginnings of the Fenix 7 pro to bring new life to my running journey.
Any of the watches with mapping would be game-changing.
I'd argue the Fenix 7 pro is better than the Epic Pro for big outdoor adventures. Better battery life, solar and the MIP screen is designed for better visibility than Amoled screens outdoors in daylight. I have the epic (non pro) but just bought my other half the Fenix 7 pro and that's what I'd buy if I was buying again
Winning comment!
Forerunner 965 was the one i wanted to get if I did have unlimited cash. i prefer using the buttons in most cases as touch screens tend to have issues during the rain which i why i prefer the forerunner range which have a touch screen on the higher end ones as a extra
Buy once cry once: FR 965 or Fenix pro Solar Sapphire or Epix pro Gen 2 Sapphire. The latter two will be heavier for most runners.
Love my Fenix 7. I think they are only 450 right now!
I'd love a fenix 7 to replace my forerunner 645
Forerunner 965 would be a lovely upgrade
I’d love a Forerunner 265 🐻
I’d love a Forerunner 265 🐻
EPIX Pro 47mm Sapphire
Coros all the way!
Trying to get back in to running after injury, illness and having a baby! The forerunner 965 would help!
I'm apple watch user and looking forward to change to Garmin!
Forerunner 265
i woluld love to own a 965 =D
Such a bugger to find any stockists of garmin to try them on 😫
The fenix 7 or the epix in black
That Enduro 2 still up for a giveaway 👀
Venu 3 is the one for me. When will winners be announced?
I got the fr55 but want 2 upgrade 2 965
Can you make a video on which one is servicable? because instinct that i own , only 1x1 replacement , once warranty end, bye bye....
The battery life is good.
Guesses on Andy's goal? He said it's a relatively easy pace to track. So I'm guessing 4 min Ks. About 2:48.
Garmin Fenix, looking for a watch with better battery and GPS
955 would be nice
Damn. I would need some crossover between Instinct and Forerunner. I don't care about running, but I like the maps. But I also like the ruggedness and undestructibility of the Instinct :-(.
Have the Epix Pro 47mm, would love to win same one for my wife ❤
Can’t fault my trusty forerunner 245 (wouldn’t turn down a cheeky giveaway watch tho 😂)
If money was no object I'd definitely go for an Enduro, the screen looks really nice.
255 or Vivoactive 5??
Love your Chanel, great fibe. Definately keep up the positivity ! As an outdoor lover really like the enduro or epix gen 2x. With my kids having something indeatructable is definately a added bonus.
Ultra vs epix?
Fenix 7 Pro Sapphire Solar
How about soccer? Best watch to track my soccer matches (weight training features are also welcome but not necessary). Help me out peeps
Why am I even watching this? I already have a Garmin 😂
forerunner 965 would be the one for me
I would love the Epix Pro, if I could justify the price. 😳
Doesn’t the 955 have the race widget?
I’d love to win the forerunner 965 to help me achieve my very ambitious half marathon goals 👍🙏
I’d live to upgrade my fenix 5 to fenix 7x pro
Epics pro would be very nice.
does anyone know who won? they say it was announced on other socials but i never saw anything
I would trade my Coros Pace 1 for a Forerunner 965 in a heartbeat
Garmin watches are best for runners surely.
❤
I love my Instinct 2x 😂
Didn't mention the tactix 7 😅
I would keep it simple and get the forerunner 55.
I'd upgrade my forerunner 245 to the 965.
I have the FR955 Solar. In British weather the solar charging feature is not a huge benefit.
I am legally blind and thanks to your video. I know the watch that I need for my runs.
As an Apple Watch user who suffers from the really poor battery life, the venu 3 seems like magic alternative
Enduro 2
One that does not freeze or die after 15 months !
I would absolutely cry If I got the forerunner 55🥹 18:20
I’m thinking about enduro, but idk
As I don't need anything else beside HR, pace, time, distance, I'll stay with my Apple Watch. Cellular option is king
Which one has a BP moniotor?
I think I would go 965
I would LOVE a 265.... been ogling them for months in the hope i can one day afford one. Started running when I became widowed as a way of dealing with emotions and headspace and not stopped. Not fast or particularly good but the mental health benefits far excel any medication 😊
I would want to co for Enduro2
Hello, can I please win the Garmin Forerunner 965? Would greatly appreciate it, cheers! haha keep up the great work!
A chance to win a Garmin? Don't mind if I do! :) A Forerunner 965 would be a nice upgrade, I think.
El mejor es SUUNTO, The Best is SUUNTO
Instinct 2 solar
i wonder y thr is no model with Amoled Screen + phone call + in-built GAP
Garmin 7 47 mm
🎅 Forerunner 265 ✅
Forerunner 265 please! Lol
I have Samsung watch 4 and it's amazing for me , because it's cheaper in my country than Garmin,
Free watch.. wouldn’t say no 😂
Ofcourse the enduro😅
This is why I can't buy into Garmin - the range of models is absurd/confusing/unclear. It's quite incredible that Garmin's own website doesn't include filtering for battery life, running type (e.g. want to do just short runs, or ultras?), etc.
Pour moi c'est Coros et rien d'autre. Je me fiche de la fiabilité, je ne suis pas une pro. Tout ce que je veux : un signal gps ultra rapide, une simplicité d'utilisation (merci les 3 uniques boutons) et une application sympathique sans prise de tête. Avec en prime une super autonomie. Même si l'écran est sombre je ne suis pas à regarder ma montre toutes les 30 secondes et je ne veux pas d'un écran amoled qui me ferait penser à une apple watch
When is the announcement and did I win? I hope so!
i would like to win the epix pro :D bigger is better
I've never had a Garmin before. I want a Forerunner 965, but in Indonesia it costs around ten million rupiah. very unaffordable for me. Ahahaha 😐
965 Thank ypu
I wish Garmin would make a square Forerunner
Can't afford those watch 😢
I don’t think you can go wrong with any garmin watch
Some day I will upgrade to a fenix7 pro
I must admit, I love the Running Channel, but I feel these Garmin-related videos watch like pure infomercials. I recognize how sponsored content is often necessary, but these often present as purely adds for a Company and not sincere Running Channel content.
Gain instinct crossover
epic pro 47
so, we're all picking the Enduro, right?
@runningchannel Was this draw to win a Garmin done yet?
i want a watch man .please
After using the apple watch for awhile now, I am itching to have more advanced metrics. The forerunner 265 looks like a good in between for the pro features without going too crazy with all the added navigation features that I probably can't use in the city.
I’m pretty sure it’s called Venus instead of venue3😂
My daughter's name is Lilly, I can only pick Lily sport...
Just buy the cheapest one and then every year update to a more expensive model till you reach the top.. just like I did 🤷‍♂
I MAY BE A SINNER, BUT MAKE ME A WINNER
Great review but the side camera view is off putting. Your presentation when looking directly at us is great. Side view seems like you've forgetten you have an audience. No offense intended, I just find it odd. I'm curious to know why presenters do this?
What about Apple Watch?
You need to have a word with the person who chooses your title pic.  "Oi guv! Wanna buy a cheap running watch? ..only one careful owner.....can't run anymore..real bargain"
⚔️💪😎🇬🇧(stroke)
Which YouTube "expert" decided a B roll camera looking a face thats not looking at it was a great idea... By any chance were they from a camera company? Just find it so distracting...
who won the giveaway? why aren't you being transparent about it?
During any given amazing run in any given beautiful space, I'm sick of getting my already battery-tired phone out of my sad little waist bag, fumbling around with the passcode as I slow down to a short and lustless limp. I eventually give in, stop and for the first time in a while notice myself trying to catch my breath as I successfully enter Fort Knox and as quickly as possible do whatever it is that has required me to stop - check my pace, distance, heart rate, where i'm heading to, what on earth I am doing at the top of this hill, reply to my partner, worry about something else, take a picture, oh I may as well take a video as well, reply to the reply from my partner, yes I will pick up dinner, check a recipe online, go on then i'll check the news as well, oh god oh god oh god, one more photo, another check of the route because i've forgotten by now, worry about how my average pace is being affected, wow look at the time (struggling to do so in the corner of my wet phone screen), and realise that I better get moving again because I havent felt my feet for a while. After taking stock of the preview of emails that will worry me for the rest of my run, I slide my soggy phone back into my belt, trap the ties on my shorts in the zip, take my gloves off in order to fix the problem, and finally do the awkward lunge of setting off once again, with my heart and lungs finding it difficult to keep up as they had assumed they were in phone scrolling mode. Would you believe it? I've forgotten where i'm going again. And after one more stop - phone's dead. I guess my partner will be worrying for the next few hours. And i'll be getting lost!

Or I could simply glance at my wrist and my Forerunner 965, keeping moving as i do all of the essentials with ease and poise, and not being distracted by anything else that can wait until i'm back at the car, the route to which is beautifully communicated to me via my lovely watch, glistening with dignity in the onslaught of British rain.

And sometimes I guess I wont mind getting my phone out for that must have photo along the way. Wow, 97% battery still! Thanks, Garmiln.
I Don't have garmin😢
Or dont bother with Garmin and get a Sunnto or Coros much better sports watches at better prices
I'm guessing garmin didn't send you any of the Marq series... cheapskates 😅
Comment to win
Garmin has too many watches. They all tell time and have GPS. Venu, Vivoactive, Fenix, Epix, Forerunner, Instinct. Just a stupid company. They need to simplify their offerings.
Instead of 6, they should have 2. A stylish one for health (Venu/Vivoactive) and a rugged one for adventure/training (Epix/Fenix).
Garmin Forerunner 965: https://www.playbetter.com/products/garmin-forerunner-965-gps-running-triathlon-smartwatch?ghref=2301%3A529694
** Watch More Videos **
I Tested the Top 5 Running Watches | Marathon Prep: https://youtu.be/kyEfwiANrfk
I Wore 18 Fitness Trackers... This One's Best!: https://youtu.be/qc094OLDdFM
I Wore 22 Sleep Trackers... This One's Best!: https://youtu.be/iNoYImNwKO0
My Plan to Run a Sub-5 Minute Mile @ 200 lbs: https://youtu.be/woqOEmV6wVE
To control music on the Garmin you just long press the bottom left button. It's really easy and you don't have to mess with menus.
Hey Shervin, great video! Just wanted to mention that the track run mode on Garmin watches isn't based on maps. It "learns" the track after the first run. After the first run it should be an almost perfect oval.
I’m on the hunt for my first Garmin and have been doing research on several models. Appreciate your honest review!
Last weekend I went hiking on a volcano with my son. As the evening approached, a heavy fog rolled in, and I could literally only see one meter ahead. I'm not sure if I would have been able to find my way back, but fortunately, I used the option to return to the starting point. It was reassuring to have topographic maps, a bright screen, excellent GPS (multiband), and, above all, a battery that wouldn't leave me stranded during the hike. I know that Fenix or Epix are more suitable for this kind of activity, but to be honest, I think this watch does it all. The only difference is that it has a less robust body but is lighter and happy to have $500 saved in my wallet.  Everyone weighs their priorities differently. Greetings and great video!
Having a Forerunner 55 since 10 days I'm already watching the reviews of higher specs model and yours are very interesting
This bloke needs more views. Production quality is always on point. Top G Level of video quality and interesting tests.
discovered your channel recently, I'm literally watching all your videos... such a great content!
Okay that top left segment indicator: next level!!
Thank you for all you do. Reviews are great, content is great. Keep it up.
I have been running for years and I finally have been looking for a high quality running watch. Thanks for the video bro! I am gonna order one now!
Best watch I’ve used for many years and I have used a lot (Fenix 7, 7 pro, Epix 2, Fenix 7x, Apex 2 pro, Pace 2, AWU, AW8)
I don’t like texts, calls, notifications etc on my watches, just use purely for sports and wear daily. 

It’s pretty much perfect for me.
I completely agree with you, I am on my second Garmin 7x. They charge you $270 to replace it after warranty is up. Only been two years! Need to take this into account when purchasing future Garmin Products.
Nice video and analysis! Great job mate.
Good video, thank you! I would note too that Garmin watches hold up a LONG time!!! As do apple products, to be fair. (I'm an huge android fan!) In the last 10 plus years, I'm only on my 2nd garmin watch. I forgot the first model, but my 630 still lasts WEEKS without needing to be charged! I bought it refurbished. But, my work is offering a health incentive, so I can actually look at new watches. An HR wrist based watch with storage for music/audiobooks so I don't have to run with my phone, sounds great! Built in golf tracking. And a tracking map when I go hunting, so I don't get lost. I definitely think i'll go with the 965!!!
Great piece of advice in the conclude part of the video
Have you done a video of the epix 2 pro vs 965? 
Curious what your experience is? Also if you could emphasise which model of the pro, 42vs47vs 51.
Great "average fitness person" review! Thinking about the 965 for the screen. I don't do iron mans or ultra marathons, just gym and bike a little, and I have the forerunner 935 for the battery life, and dont use my apple watch (4) as its just one more thing to charge everyday. I would get apple watch ultra, but i always have my phone, so there's no benefit for me. Like your channel, keep up the good work!
Awesome video as always . One question I have is you mention Apple Health is your main health app that catches all data , what if you do a run on Apple Watch do you some how get that loaded on Garmin Connect to keep your training status updated or your not to concerned with connect ?  Thanks
Thank you so much for this... lots of my friends recommended the Forerunner 965 to me. However, my Apple Watch is still okay. I'm not a professional athlete, so the Apple Watch suffices for my needs. Just thinking about running a marathon, when it comes to battery life, I have to admit that the Apple Watch only lasts until 30 kilometers (while listening to music and podcasts).
I’m between Forerunner 965 and a Fenix 7 Solar (or sapphire)

I’m using it to trailrun/train/lift in prep for Spartan Beast as well as being able to know where I am miles wise when doing the beast. Also an avid backpacker but I already have an In Reach. 

Since you own both of these, which would you recommend I buy? Price wise, the 965 is only $200-300 cheaper.

I don’t know if I’d be using all the other functions of the fenix but I do weightlifting religiously, so not sure if the activity tracking for fenix is better than the 965? In terms of looking at “life after” my spartan race
You can customize hotkeys to whatever you like, including music player. Super easy to do. Surpirse you did not mention that
Fir music controls there is an automatic shortcut. Just hold the "down button". From there you can easily pause/play skip. An extra 2 clicks allows you to adjust volume.
mostly do cycling and brisk walking, would this be a good watch? im torn between this and the instinct 2x. love the ruggedness and solar of instinct 2x, but I also love the features of 965
Excellent video Shervin! As an AWU primary user, I actually just ordered a 965 a few days ago. It should be here next week. Love your insight because I think we’re on the same wavelength on all the topics. I’ve yet to purchase a Garmin that I’ve kept for longer than the return period (actually, I believe I kept and later sold the 945?).

It always comes back to the AWU for me, but I’m an on-call nurse and dad so having LTE without my phone is crucial. I hate to say it but  I’m already suspecting the 965 will go back. I’ll give it an honest try though!
Awesome review. Thank you. I will be purchasing the watch after this
Really well done review :)
I wanted a Garmin because I have been using the Vivoactive 3 for a while. I went with the galaxy watch 5 and am missing the battery life but I love the other features of the watch 5. I may splurge for my birthday and get another Garmin anyway.
Thankyou for these videos 👍
Stress and body battery scores are underrated features on the garmin watches. I hear a lot about the sleep scores as being important, which it is I suppose (although I don't use it), the body battery is very helpful info. The body battery is a by-product of all the other stuff I suppose.
I like the body battery it's kinda nice to see the number and correlate it to how my day is. It's pretty accurate. But it's cool to see it.
Just got the watch  normally a just use strava on my iphone. Went on a 8mile run today but the watch was 2mins slower than my phone  so baffled a bit to know whats  more accurate.
Please tell me i have ordered garmin 955  forerunner on Amazon. İs it good?
You can just download your workout playlist then use a wireless earbud 
And most decent earbuds can skip songs etc 
It’s pretty much a perfect watch 
For sports (not smart watch )
Interesting I have rarely ever had to manually import things into Strava from my Apple Watch Ultra. Workouts, runs, walks have always auto imported for me.
I actually use the Instict Solar. That thing is rugged. Own a Forerunner 255, but I only use it on intense training sessions to grab training performance data I can't get from the Instinct Solar. To be honest with you, all of these Garmin Watches do the exact same basic things and they're essentially bike computers on the wrist.
How would you compare this to the fenix 6s pro solar? I "upgraded" back in april to the fenix from the forerunner 935 and the battery life on the fenix is absolutely horrendous
What city is this?
Does the watch have acrued time? So you get a break down of per mile also with the combined time of 2 miles, 3 miles, 4 miles to what ever distance u run.
And Garmin pay accepts Curve which can have any card and is free. Just get a free curve account and add it to your watch. And add any card you want to your curve account. Bit of a workaround but easy to do and you only have to do it once.
I was in the Apple shop the other day . Looked at the AWU whilst browsing and it’s  no comparison to my  Epix gen 2 sapphire.
Liked the review…..one thing you should be aware of (more in terms of comparison than anything else) is there are countries such as her in Ireland where carriers don’t support e-SIM, so the advantages of the Apple Watch ultra fall away.   You still need a phone with you for Cell service etc to respond to texts to download from Spotify.   So when you take that away from the Apple Watch it becomes an average fitness watch with appalling battery life and the Garmin is streets ahead.
funny how many people actually don't like loading mp3's onto their watch, I have the fitbit Ionic for this very reason that and the gps, maybe I am just old.. But I am looking at getting a Garmin since Fitbit recalled my watch. I don't wanna have to carry my phone while exercising, so having everything on the wrist is nice
Maybe 4:27 the Garmin didn’t trace right because the rotation of the Earth? Idk just a thought
The goat speaks !! 🐐🐐🐐🐐🐐
Tenho p 735xt, e por enquanto está ótimo, tenho todas funções que preciso!
Not correct about Apple workout app not uploading directly to Strava. The workout app will upload straight to Strava, you just hit save on the run in the Workout app and it uploads to Strava. Depending on whether u have cellular or not, it may need to be near your phone to do this though.
Track mode on Apple watch is great in the US... nowhere near as accurate internationally. 
HRV, stress load are useful for multi-sport when you have to stack the workouts (8-12 workouts a week), not just running...
8:00 I'd argue that the *first best* way of controlling your music while you're running is through buttons/sliders/whatever on your headphones. It's much more convenient to double press a button on my Shokz for next song or change the volume there than fiddling on my watch or even phone.
One of the big differences between the 965 and the 265 is mapping - but you can easily add maps to the 265 with an app like Mappily for not very much money. Might be worth a look if you're on the fence about which to go for.
Awesome review!
I regularly use and look at the stats that Garmin provides. Those are the biggest reason I use it more than my Apple Watch Ultra. As well, you don't need to down load apps and pay for damn subscriptions to get the data that the device can provide.
I’m looking at either getting the Garmin fenix 6 pro or the forerunner 955. I want something that will be good for occasional backpacking with no service with a good battery life, but is also great for everyday wear and running with great navigation. Is the 955 good for all of these things or should I go with the fenix 6 pro?
ZRL is just Tuesdays. Unfortunately/fortunately they are the biggest name in the game, so the best teams show up. There's a few other series/leagues happening, but not with the same team dynamics. One day, I'll have to jump in with you on the tiny races.
“Frictionless “. Yep, certainly less friction. It’s why I bought the Apple, even though I wanted the Garmin.
Any negative experiences with the HR or sleep tracking? From The Quantified Scientist’s testing, they didn’t seem accurate
Have you ever tested the polar pacer pro? If so, what are your thoughts on it?
Do u think the traning readiness and training effect worth it? If I do most workout inside gym should I get the venu 3 or 965?
You should be at a million followers. Soon enough!
Would like to see your daily diet.
just bought it and now sent it back - the price is insane should be half that cost
great another watch comparison review.
I have an Apple Watch and it syncs automatically with Strava when I finish a run.
Both 265 and 965 track triathlon and cloth does not dry better than silicone
The body battery and stress monitoring features on Garmin are quite impressive.

Stress monitoring, which utilizes Heart Rate Variability (HRV), enables you to understand many situations where you might not have realized your body was undergoing stress. With this information, you can take appropriate actions. Maybe I'm being overly dramatic, but I believe it's a life-changing feature.

Garmin also has the Body Battery feature, which compiles all the data from the watch to give you a rough idea of your limits and the extent to which an event (like a workout or stress) impacts your body. It also helps you understand aspects like sleep debt, and more.

On the other hand, Apple is quite limited in these respects. I say this after toy around with an Apple Watch Series 8. You'll need to use additional apps to achieve something similar, and as far as I can tell, the Apple Watch doesn't collect HRV data as frequently as Garmin does. Consequently, the stress monitoring feature will have far fewer data points on an Apple Watch than on a Garmin, which will lead to a less acture stress picture.
I wanted the 965 then the Epix came out. That's what I went with.
I’m not a runner at all, I’m doing cycling more and the usual things that humans do, between the newest Apple Watch series 9 that will be out, or a 265 that I think will fulfill my needs, what do I choose ? 
I have one shoot at this, I have a series 5 but it’s old, busted and the battery doesn’t hold me enough so that I can be stress free and just roll without caring about my Apple Watch, 
I have to change this year with one of the two 
So I take Apple Watch newer generation or I change course and take for the first time garmin 265 ? 
I’m afraid to be let down/ disappointed by garmin and wanting to get back to the Apple Watch … tough one for me
I’ve spent TWO years trying to find “one watch to rule them all”. Truth is? There isn’t. Smartwatches that look cool don’t have the features I need and are CRAZY EXPENSIVE PLUS THEY have features that interrupt my workouts and training. And the ones that do EXACTLY what I need? Are style free, soulless and sterile pieces of plastic and silicone.
Im debating the 965 vs 265. Leaning towards the 965
This dude runs with 10 watches on. My takeaway is to get 5  plus watches in order to get the best smartwatch experience and wear them all simultaneously lol.
My issue is how disconnected the Garmin ecosystem is. Some stuff you have to do on the watch, some in the mobile app and then some in the web app. Very annoying and Garmin DOES NOT listen to user’s requests. There are simple features, such as calendar updates, which have been requested for 5+ years and they just ignore us.
Have you tried the garmin instinct 2?
Is this a 42mm???
Hello guys. This 965 have spotify??
will this watch work for a walker 80 miles + per week or is this watch just specifically for runners only?
How come a silicon band dry slower than a nylon one?
It’s great watch, I’m getting it, instead of another AW. Unfortunately it’s damn hard to get in UK, 600£, 3-5 WEEKS shipping time -.-
If you hold down the bottom right button during a workout it takes you to the music settings. It’s not that hard.
instinct 2 Solar for me
If you hold the down button you can get to your music fast
Do people still consider other’s perception when making purchasing decisions?
You can turn training status off, when you’re not training so you don’t get those sad updates hahn
Apple fan boy for sureee 😂 no hate though
You look like Keegan-Michael Key.
Track running today, start , stop, save...activity on watch, on garmin connect just a move iq, nothing else....everything else sync ok. I start to regret buying this product.
Good info/review, but you talk WAY too fast for me! With ❤ Rikki
I've come to a conclusion with Garmin. They are part-time watches. Good for one thing, with no esims they will always be second to Apple Watch and Galaxy Watches.  From the Enduro2 1k to the 955 solar $500 no esims or true LTE they will never accommodate the every day common person. Loved the 955 solar and Instinct 2x solar but my GWpro5 always wins no matter how good the HR sensor is on Garmin's.  MIP displays  with true solar charge😍 is where it's at.  Great review👍
Did a 50k and a 60k with my Apple Watch. Guess I’m not that serious
If you crave a smartwatch over a dedicated fitness watch, it imply that you are lacking in fitness or not fit enough.
Silicone drys faster than cloth 😂
So much wrong information in this video. Learn how to use the watch correctly before saying you can't do this or that .
I didn't watch but i did buy :-) just joking but tired of kids titles Don't buy until you watch this, c'mon grow up that is for kids to lure them
If you wear an Apple Watch, you aren't serious about fitness.
I swear this guy is the worst fitness trackers reviewer ever
Shervin, we KNOW you love that apple watch, but you keep getting really simple things wrong in these garmin reviews, show the love with some easy fixes.

Stress and body battery are used to help determine your training readiness from Garmin, and the morning run down is part of that. Stress can also help peopel realize the things they do to hold back training (Drinking alcohol, eating too much, so on) as they will see the stress spike and it helps people learn what is bad for them. Body battery is a great indicator of sleep, stress, and readiness. Morning routine has rolled out to almost every garmin device, and is well recived, but you cna check the stats with garmin on that.  These are also built in, you do not need a 3rd party app that you have ot pay for to track these things 

Smartwatch features: you can access the music by pressing a single button, bottom left and it will let you control volume and going back or forward. You can connect spotify and it will download a playlist, same thing apple offers for offline music on non LTE devices.

for the dozenth time - Garmin pay is on there, it is contactless payments, I have an AMEX platinum and a Chase saphire card on there. it works anywhere Apple pay works. 

You got this, there are ways to fix every "problem" you have brought up, you talk about how you have ot optimize the apple watch to work best for you, same goes for any serious Garmin user. 

I have an apple watch Ultra and a Fenix 7x pro, I wear the Fenix full time, waiting for the apple watch OS10 update and possibly a new ultra that supports ant+, otherwise I can't take it seriously as a workout device for a cyclist.
The 965 is totally worth it , I prefer it over the Ultra.

Why are you screaming!?
Is there a way to count jumps (jump rope workout) in Fr255?
When I go a easy run that is my current 5k pb is 18:57 so my easy pace is around 5:20 to 5:40  so when I do the easy runs in these paces then my Garmin says the heart rate above aerobic zone,so is it good or Garmin say wrong?
I would go with 965 or Instinct 2.
Hi.. just want to know, between venu 2 plus and forerunner 265, which one have longer battery life?
I discovered that the Fenix watches are heavy on wrist, cold when minus degrees, bad light and bad vibration. I would go woth a forerunner 255 music or something like that instead.
Great review! Thanks
I have had Forerunner 255, and 265 this month and just ordered the 955 today. Forerunner 265 has a nicer screen compared to 255, however, I have noticed a consistent delay when accessing workout statistics and sometimes when switching back to the watch face from the menu. This could be due to the fact that the processor in the Forerunner 265 is the same as in the Forerunner 255, potentially having difficulties in rendering more pixels (and silly animations) because I never experience this with 255. The 265 battery life lasts around 3 days with always-on enabled and about 8 days without it.
Can anyone tell me which Garmin watch has animated workouts ? List of all watches which has animated workouts 

Waiting..
Thank you
The watch at 3:28, I can’t find that color way anywhere. Which is it?
Thanks dude you helped me choose my g shock now you’re helping me with my Garmin ❤
nice video ❤️
Nice video
Yes why😊
Nice
Hi everyone. Good review. Here is my like. My vote goes to Forerunner 255. A nice weekend for everyone. ⌚🏃🌞
Fenix 7 didn't make the list?
Fenix 7? Enduro 2? …
Super incomplete video.
If you have tattoo on your watch wearing hand.. don't buy a new garmin, before you try, if the wrist heart rate sensor works first :) otherwise u can end up with "a new and improved" sports watch, which you can wear only on your untattood hand.
Instinct 2
Why do smart watches have music storage? Do they have speakers or headphone jacks? Why not just use your phone for music?
Can you type texts from any of these watches? Not interested in voice only
Garmin Venu 2 does it for me.
Hey man lower your voice.
Jesus CALM down! I had to turn the video off. Why are you shouting down the mic?
iPhone compatible?
mate, are you also AI? its getting hard to tell after so many "BEST 2023 GARMIN" videos
Pain!!!
Are the better than the Apple Watch ?
the winner is huawei
Garmin is not a health tracker at all. It says I’m sleeping when I’m watching tv and then going to the toilet before actually going asleep . Furthermore it misses hr by 30bpm compared to Polar h10.
If you like this video you'll love our new podcast! We've extended our year-end chats to a regular, on-going podcast where we chat about all things sports tech including smartwatches, sportswatches, bike computers, bike trainers, trainer apps, and anything sports tech related. 👉 https://www.youtube.com/@thefitfile
You guys need to do an awards episode.  Best of the year.  Best value.  Best running / fitness.  Best smartwatch.  Best battery life.  Etc.
Garmin should have a trade-up program to foster loyalty and buying without 3-5 year gaps.
Dang almost 2 hours long? Gotta get the popcorn! 🍿 🎥
This is fast becoming a private Christmas party for my adventure watch guilty pleasure. Thanks for all the hard work! This was fun!
This video is extremely helpfull. It saves me at least 12 hours watching different channels of reviewing smartwatches.
The FR965 getting a sapphire screen would be fantastic. I long stayed in the Fenix family, but recently pulled the trigger on the 965. It's a fantastic device, but I admittedly was apprehensive about how the screen would hold up after spending years with a sapphire screen. So far so good. I love how much lighter it is. Less bezel, more (AMOLED) screen!
One of the best days of the year! 🎉
Glad to see Suunto finally upping their game and being competitive again in the market on all aspects going from software, features, price, and as usual their GPS accuracy. Hope to see more great things again from them next year!
Completely agree with you both on Garmin and their completely broken model naming. I consider myself to be reasonably up to date on sports tech but the whole epix vs fenix thing with various suffixes just leaves me scratching my head. In my head because of the different names I’m deeply suspicious that somewhere in the menus there’ll be a crucial missing feature. If only the display is different lets have fenix 7 and fenix 7 amoled and then it’s clear. Great work guys, just another 55 minutes to go 😊
If Garmin could add cellular capabilities for messaging and calls as well as strong vibrations/tones for notifications that could match Apple Watch then it would be a no brainer for me instead of being stuck on the fence between full blown smart watch or full blown fitness watch
Very cool you both collaborate. Would love to see you each speak with Product Managers from Garmin, Casio, Citizen, and Apple about the convergence of fashion watches and fitness trackers.
So, first of all, thank you, your genuine friendship is inspiring. 

Will watch all your videos in 2024 as well.

Next, Garmin really needs to repair their naming convention. They should state clearly the entry level, the mid level and the flagship. Plus, enough with the pro/plus/etc
My 7x pro with the better MIP screen has been almost perfect. If they didn’t update it would of gone with the epix pro
I currently use the Samsung Watch 5 pro and what keeps me in the Samsung family is really decent trade-ins.  I got $170 for my Watch 4.  I'd highly suggest Garmin institute the same business practice. Create brand loyalty and show recycling conscience
Y'all are the real deal.! Even though I ended up finally pulling the trigger on the 7x pro because of a great sale of $700 and your reviews. I still have to watch this. 😂 Thanks for all y'all's hard work and help with my decision. I couldn't be happier for my gym workouts and health tracking coming from a galaxy watch 6 classic. 💪
It's a lovely video; keep it up, guys! I agree with the naming strategy! It should become simpler. I have the Enduro 2nd Gen, which I believe should be merged with the Fenix unless they will release an Enduro 3 with Amoled, solar charging and whatnot to make battery life more amazing than it is!
Really AWESOME overview.  Love the insights you guys bring.  Thanks for everything you do to give the community the best information out there!
DC Rainmaker and Desfit in one Watch Test. Thats an Blockbuster !! A litte Bit like The Expendables :)🤣
As a Garmin Instinct 2 user I really wanted an Epix 2 or Fenix 7, but they are just soooooooo expensive. I ended up picking up a Amazfit T-Rex 2 instead. That will have to do for now...
Always great to hear you guys… I wish you gave the rest watches the review you gave Polar v3, great video.
Do you think Garmin is going to do anything more with LTE?

They seem to have released the 945lte then just gave up on it.
Garmins next versions of the Crossover and Instinct 2x are probably going to be the next devices ill be interested in. I was sooooo close to pulling the trigger on both at different times of '23
Hello Des and Ray...it is nice to see you guys togheter again. Also nice to see new brands - like Mobvoi-, units being included on the review. My brand is Suunto and currently own a 9 Baro Unit and may be upgrading next year. Not a real fan of AMOLED displays but MIP's are my thing. More discrete and power saving devices. Huawei and Amazfit are getting more sport units and less smart watches devices. Samsung and Xiaomi maybe?. Cheers from México. Keep up the good work. Happy Holidays. Peace.
My 51mm Epix Pro is IMO the best athletic watch in existence today!
My experience with the 265 - Venu 3 comparison was exactly what Ray commented on.  In the end, I threw my hands in the air and upgraded my Apple Watch.  The Venu 3 with training readiness/training load features would have been an easy buy for me.
We were looking forward to this!!!
Thank you guys for he whole year, and see you in many more reviews!
Love your channel ..and i enjoy both of you guyz channels very informative and really to be honest the best place to get a review of any snart watch. So Whats your favourite watch..as in which tops them All.🙏🏿??
You guys really spoke to my struggle. The 265s and the Venu 3s are so close, and yet so vexxing. i had both and yet I wanted to settle on one. But I miss my training features when I'm wearing the Venu 3s. Yet the neat little notes after training that you get with the Venu 3 is nice as well. Plus the touchscreen interface on the Venu 3 while adding in information... aaaaaaggghhh! So what do I pick? The microphone and speaker? Or the beloved training features that I have coveted since Vivoactive Heart (or whatever that ugly thing was called) "accidentatlly" had training effect for 2 weeks before it was deactivated. Sigh...
Hello Guys, Thank you very much for this great review. I have a question, What is your recommendation for a watch that is good for fitness, HR and tracking sleep. (Not necessary a smartwatch, I rarely use my phone actually) … Thank you so much guys for always sharing your knowledge 🙏🏼
Thank you for doing this! 👏
I just bought my first Garmin watch today - Vivoactive 5
I genuinely look forward to this every year
I always look forward to this each year!!      love it
I just brought the Garmin tactix amoled, and iys awesome, a very solid watch, with that amoled display, and hardware, and so on its my ideal watch.
Nice review. 
Currently, I'm using Apple watch 6 for the functionality and an amazfit bip 2 for when I want 2 weeks without charging. A great combo for my needs for using with my android phone. 
The watch that tempts me most is the vivoactive 5. And having had the vivoactive 3, its great seeing the vivoactive name coming back.
Amazing stream, thanks guys! 🙏🏼
Can't wait for your guys descent MK3 review. Very curious on why they put the old heart rate sensor on it instead of the latest one 🤔
Totally agree on the features vs price level on the Garmin watches. Garmin did something similar with the 645… when the 245 was released at a lower price, it had some more advanced features (not hardware related) that were never added to the 645. I liked my 645 very much, but Garmin totally discarded the buyers of the watch.
I've had my dive watch/computer for about 6+ yrs and almost the same with my Fenix5X which was latest & greatest at the time. It's fantastic that now i can combine the two witout compromise on either in 2024. I am holding the trigger til my next dive trip as both units are still working very well except for thr diminished battery time on the Garmin but after all these years of hard use, i am impressed it still works! Disappointed to see the charge type has not changed since 5X.
I am loving my FR 965. I use it for fitness, running, indoor rowing, hiking and motorcycling. It does everything I need and want it to do, and it is very comfortable to wear with the nylon strap.
I’ve worn the Forerunner and then Fenix/Tactix series (always the large versions) for years, and picked up the Epix Pro Sapphire 51mm this year, particularly due to the battery life. While the Epix Pro 51mm equals or betters the Fenix 7 Pro in battery life with always-on turned off, there is still the gap, of course, with it turned on (although 11 days’ life is incredible). I am interested to see whether Garmin somehow merges the Fenix and Enduro lines and comes up with a MIPS model with even better battery life, or whether they focus on improving AMOLED battery life and eventually drop the MIPS watches altogether. It would be neat to see an Enduro 3 with updated HR sensor and better-than-Fenix 7 Pro battery life.
On a completely different note, it would be amazing to see a Fenix or Epix watch that squarely took on Apple by finally including LTE functionality and/or standalone InReach capability.
Hey gents!

I truly appreciate your videos on YouTube. I have watched your videos and others on Epix pro v. Fenix 7X pro battery and amoled screen difference. I’m still conflicted on whether the Epix pro battery in a smartwatch mode can last me a full marathon and 50KM (my longest distances). Happy to hear your thoughts. Thanks.
Finally got a chance to sit down and watch this! Fantastic 🍿
I would love to see a new Suunto 7 Google wear smart/sports watch. I have to say that was one of my favorite watches for a mostly smartwatch user who likes the rugged/sporty design
So good! Thank you!
Thanks, guys! I watched countless hours of both of your channels to decide which Garmin watch was right for me. Epix Pro 2 (let's just get rid of the 'gen' as mentioned in the video) ftw. Love it!
Which is the best for cyclocross?must have power and HR compatibility
For a Non-Garmin, device the Amazfit Balance was a great surprise. One of the first more accurate Amazfit watches. But i would still advice most to pay 30% extra and get a real garmin.
Congrats on this and nailing the piece around Garmin naming while discussing the Fenix and Epic - I've been researching for months and had no idea up to now of how Garmin organises their models and naming convention. Here's something crazy considering I'm stepping up to the 100km ultra marathon distance this year: because of the million models of Garmin which I just can't work out, I'm going for a Coros or an Apple Watch Ultra 2 (and likely the latter as I'm wary of Coros). That is crazy.... Honestly, I've been things to be doing than working out the multitude of Garmin models...

Also, my crazy wish: a double width Apple Watch Ultra 2. Amazing for mapping. And I'm willing to bet it comes in around the same weight as a Fenix/Epix.... It'll never happen :)
Great job. I really enjoy these. Thanks
Thank you guys. Really love this review.
After weeks of consideration and watching numerous sportwatch reviews, I decided to buy the Coros Pace 3. I love its long-lasting battery, features, and frequent updates that add more features, making early reviews less relevant.
Guys I have spent the last 3 months reviewing options to replace my Apple Watch (series 7) with a focus on health, fitness and outdoor activities. I was all over the Garmin map (no pun intended). I don’t need phone capabilities, so I ended up with the Fenix 6 pro solar (reconditioned). With all your info on both your channels, I am confident about the choice for me. I just want to say “Thank you”.
help please. So should I get epix51pro now for christmas, or wait for the next revision? i have a 935 its okay, just getting old!

my christmas wishlist would be a  an epix that has inreach capabilities...
Another fantastic annual overview, Des & Ray. Thanx!
Unfortunately I was ultimately unable to attend the morning run or visit the cave. Hopefully we will meet again next year.
Suggestion: Would also like to see an annual review of accessories as well, such as the Whoop band, Stryd, Oura Ring, ...
Yes!!! I was waiting for this. 😅
Another fantastic review from you and Des. I'm curious, though. Other than just being better at something, whether it's heart rate data, GPS or whatever...what else is out there that has become the carrot to chase which nobody or hardly anyone has done up to this point? With all the stuff these things can do, I'm just wondering what is left, other than maybe LTE for all fitness watches.
Have this year finally replaced my old FR235 (I was very much a beginner runner so my decision at the time was between that and the FR45) with a Fenix 7X Pro (as I'm now going past HM to Marathons and ultras).

Agree that the 7X basically made the Enduro moot, as until the Pro came out, I was wavering between the Fenix 7X and the Enduro 2. As for the next Epix... could that solve both the Epix naming issues the amoled Fenix confusion by just being called the Fenix?
Awesome review! Thanks guys!
I have two of the "tactical" nylon straps that I use with my fenix 7X -- one of them I have had since the 6X. I have the original black on and a coyote tan one. They are stiffer than I would prefer and do not really soften. But they do mold to your wrist over a few days. After that point the stiffness is fairly irrelevant.

The end that sticks into the keeper loops frays a bit over time and you need to apply a match or lighter to re-melt every several months of daily wear to keep them nice. Other than cosmetic touch-up by melting the bands themselves are nearly indestructible.

I use the nylon strap for 24x7 daily wear when not actually working out. I find that this is good for me in tropical environments to prevent developing a rash or ringworm under the strap because they breath and I am have somewhat of a tendency to rashes under the watch band. 

I like these bands but my review is mixed.
What’s the best bang for buck as a back up /standby watch in the Garmin eco system. I run a tactix daily but thinking the Garmin swim (I do a lot of swimming) as I can carry on when I send it back

I am a large guy so bigger is better and I nearly bought the epix in the Black Friday sale :-)
❤ these videos every year.
1:27:48 I have one of the bands - it takes some time, probably a few months, but it broke in to a point where it’s comfortable, but it is still stiff. I can tell you now that it’s comfortable on the size that I always wear it on, and if I had to change it, I would notice it because of how stiff the band it. Saying that, I like to wear a silicone band when I run or swim as it’s easier to clean and dry, but I often forget to switch it because of how comfy this band is now. It’s also really hard wearing, which, for the intended use and what I use it for, is key.
After so many years (for as long as I can remember) I have always used Garmin, but honestly, acquiring GPS signal takes so long sometimes more than like 5 minutes, updating older models is just non existent! I have the Enduro 1 and its like they have forgotten about it! It was flagship watch and just no new features or anything, they can easily implement alot of features! But yeah, I will be switching to either Coros or Suunto!
I look forward to this all year. Do either of you review the Withings Scanwatch Nova?
I've become a huge Fénix fan. From the original, now rocking the 6 (waiting for the newest Pros to get cheaper) it will be sad to see such an iconic name to go away. But this is me just being a fan boy of this watch
What about surfing with the Forerunner 965?  I love the larger screen and slimmer base on it vs. the Epix.
The Tactix band (which I use for my 2x) is the most comfortable band once you break it in. It also adds style to the 2x (Tactical).
At this time i could get a fenix 6 pro solar or instinct 2x which do you think is better I've used a 1st gen instinct as my edc for years and love it I actually bought a 2x back in Dec but sent it back as I had just purchased a rangeman gshock and just didn't want to hear it from the wife,  anyways thoughts on the 2x vs femix 6 if they were the same price
great video Guys ! Especially last seconds of it ;)
BEST Collab! 🎉
Hot take: AMOLED is overrated.  I’m not saying it’s bad.  And I’m not saying it’s not hear to stay.  I’m just finding that when I switch back to MIP, I don’t miss the sharper display all that much.  I very often wear the Enduro 2 on my left wrist and AWU2 on my right wrist.  The MIP display doesn’t bug me or cause me any issues.  Works just fine.  (Grandpa rant.  👴)
Another great  video..thank you guys 😊
A 975 solar with sapphire(w/amoled) would be an immediate buy for me as an upgrade to my 945 LTE.
As a current spix usernif i was buying again id go for the fenix 7 pro. The amoled screen on the epix is nice but only makes a difference for maps which is used very infrequently. The febix has the better battery life and solar, both of which would be benefitted from daily.  Splitting hairs really as both are top of the pile in my opinion but for iutdoor endurance events thenfenix nakes more sense as the MIP screen is also better in sunlight than the Amoled anyway
So what yall think? AMOLED or MIP Display? Wanting to get into a higher end watch like a 965 or 955 for running, xc skiing, fitness and smartwatch features...i like a big readable screen but is it possible to set the 965 always on while doing activity?
Appreciate the video!  Thanks!
Great review. Thanks!
Wow I didn't know you guys did these! How cool.
Unfortunately Polar seems to be loosing the momentum. I transferred from my Polar Vantage V2 to the Garmin 965 after years of being a Polar fan since their usb connection to their Polar Trainer PC software years ago. I would think that Polar would have something to expand on their Fitness Testing and Recovery programs
Two of my favorite creators.
GREAT VIDEO!!!!! THANKS A LOT!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!👍👍👍👍👍
thanks for this video!
Thank you guys for the video! Very insightful! I am struggling to find a Garmin that works for me because of the battery life. I play badminton and swim on regular basis. I also hike and go out fishing in the summer. I prefer light weight watch. And I am not a pro of any of these activities. Any advice ?
Nice review. Huawei Watch GT4? (My original commentaries x 2 were longer but I think were deleted).
Vendors add features so spec comparisons look good. Trouble is, many features are shallow and useless, but the buyer learns this too late. Thank you for helping us know which features meet our needs and actually work as expected.
Thank you for making such a wonderful video! @DC Rainmaker Hi Ray, I observe that you are wearing the Whoop strap in most of your videos and indeed I have been using it since its founding days. After watching your review and comparing it with other standard heart rate monitors I don't find it accurate. Please tell me if the accuracy has improved or the reason why you wear it consistently. I find their pricing model highly unjustifiable especially after watching your review! I would deeply appreciate your feedback in this matter.
Fenix 7 pro looks so great.
Great walk through on all of these. On the Garmin Fenix 7 Pro and Epix, if they are essentially the same watch just one has an amoled display, is the $300 price difference and significantly reduced battery life worth it for someone whose primary activities with it will be walking and hiking?
I have just brought a Suunto Race watch black 😀👍
Hope that Polar will come with some major updates for vantage v3 to make it more competitive
As a Garmin fanboy I wonder what new hardware features are being developed for the Fenix 8. I seriously doubt that glucose or BP measuring are there yet, so that would leave them with new design and possibly a new charging port/wireless charging. I guess we will see!
Thanks for your video, you're amazing
Does polar h10 work with Samsung Health?
Nice review as always 👍Why don't you add Huawei also 🤔
To me there is one limitation of amoled that negates it for me. I want to use my watch as an always on bike computer straped to my handlebar for long rides on my road bike. Therefore MIP is my only option. I dont understand why this is not a bigger thing in amoled watch reviews. I dont want to reach for my watch every 30 secs to turn on the backlight.
Would you buy the vivoactive 5 or epix gen 2? I can get epix (gen2) for £350 or vivo 5 for £230 I really only want it for weight training and sleep coach
Instinct 2x!!!
I am not an operator, but I think the Tactix with amoled will be marketed at the non-military "tacti-cool" market that want the look but don’t need the actual security feature.
If I could have any Garmin it would be that forged carbon. Looks sweet. Price is insane though. I wonder how much it costs for them to produce one of them.
Good selection
Wjat do you thnink? Get an Epix pro (gen2) , or wait few months for a major update Epix (gen 3)?
Des's Sapphire option on the forerunner 9xx series is a good one. I'd buy it. I'd also like to see better smartwatch features such as improvements to both text_email handling and turn-by-turn Google Maps navigation. Plus the latest HR sensor of course.
Huwaei GT4 prices £199 and Garmin instinct 2  standard for £185 .Among these 2 watches which is compatible for i phone and accurate health monitoring
On the Suunto watches, can they do updates to improve the heart rate sensor and to the maps so that they have a little more detail like street names?
It's a pity that you haven't tested Amazfit Balance, I'm curious about your opinion on it. I hope you will record something else about this watch soon.
1:28:40 as a former operator, can confirm:  The percentage of actual military professionals wearing pieces like this, rounded to the nearest percent… is zero.

You tend to find forerunner series (looks, and lightweight) and instinct series (disgusting battery life) on the wrists of actual operators.  

Night vision, zeroize, applied ballistics, and jumpmaster features are just marketing for tactical Bros.  

Solid wrap up, guys.  See you all next year!
What is the best multi sport watch for performance and recovery? I mainly do soccer, 5k, 100,200,400m sprints, functional training - I want to track my metrics and my recovery - any recommendations what the best watch is? I’ve always used a polar vantage and recently Apple Watch - any new suggestions people
This one is must watch. I'm waiting more than Apple WWDC. Thank you again this year for this video.
I bought a Venu 3 based on your reviews.

In my country, it was much cheaper than FR 265.

Now, let me ask you this: if I put one of those plastic/rugged cases to protect it, will it affect the accuracy?
What would you recommend between the two: Forerunner 265 or Forerunner 955?
Can either of you vouch for a particular watch that excels at measuring calories burned? Both for workouts and the everyday life ones.
I’m not loyal to Garmin, but Garmin just keeps putting out watches that cover all the bases. Would have loved me a Coros Pace 3 or a Suunto vertical or even a polar vantage v3. I need ant+ along with Bluetooth sensor compatibility. Then Garmin also is implementing the offline maps better than anyone. Then you have the music. Both mp3 and deezer Spotify Amazon. Anything out there other than Garmin that’s better than my Forerruner 955? I’m not an amoled display guy. Nothing to do with the battery life. Just prefer not to have a smartwatch looking watch on my wrist. ID actually prefer the instinct 2 solar if it had all the features of my 955
Its this time of the year alteady? Time sure flies fast.
When is your longterm review of the Suunto Vertical coming out? Been waiting for it for ages😁 and any spoilers about it you want to share? I am on the fence about keeping mine or swap to Apex 2 Pro 😊
More skews isn't better snd Garmin shoots in leg. More sales due features is away from competitors. Thou they can have 1 watch for EACH feature
Great video but I was hoping to see at the end what you would buy at different price points.
Just bought the Fenix 7x Pro Sapphire Solar on Amazon for $699 USD, brand new... I couldn't pass up that deal!  I wonder how big of an upgrade it'll be from my Venu 3
for me the ideal watch size range is maximum 45mm.. if it's more than that it will be very strange.. it's like putting a wall clock on your hand 😅
I think sleeper watch of 2023 is Garmin 255, you get all the metrics and dual band gps, great battery life and price now is unbeatable for what you get.
Perhaps we'll see a Garmin Fenix/Epix Crossover... Maybe in the form of a Marq 3 ??
I'm looking for a good recommendation for a hiking watch
Thank you for this review. Do you know that in Suunto Race, you can store  15 races only. For a 16Go or 32 Go watch, this is  very low. In addition, this watch is not compatible with Komoot. Pity because the other characteristics of this watch are fine and the watch is easy to use
Did you set the Samsung 6 HR on measure continous reading? Only its not set up out of the box to do that.
I have an Apple Watch SE and I still enjoy it. I just wish the battery life was a bit closer to what Garmin puts out. The Apple Watch Ultra looks awesome, but I have the wrist of a small teenager, so it would look bad on me. I don’t like to usually go more than 46-47 on lug to lug.
Yep, more battery life for my Ultra2 please
So glad the Fenix/Epix/Enduro naming conventions got discussed. 
What a mess.
I watched till the end waiting for you guys to tell us which ones are your personal best this year😢😢
Obviously Epix Extra Pro - or something of equal silly magnitude
I use huawei GT 4 realy good sportwatch but i cant see it in your collection
It seems to appear the Fitbit Charge 6 is still having major issues like the Charge 5, reading Fitbit's community board. You can tell Google and Fitbit weren't on the same page as mentioned in the video.
Can you push next time the Pixel Watch team to include more things like interval training for running next time?
im most concerned about heart rate tracking and diversity of workout types tracking (not just running)
May I know what phones do you guys use? The hosts
I may be an outlier on this but I personally do not want another phone screen. The AMOLED, to me, is like having another phone screen. I would like to buy the Garmin FR265 but the AMOLED is too much for a watch. It is too distracting to me. I will be buying the FR255 for the MiP screen. it will likely be my last Garmin unless they keep providing MiP screens for the FR series.
Garmin should add real waterproof / inductive buttons to Fenix & Epix Pro series. My Epix Pro LAP button died in two months because I was timing my swim laps by pressing the LAP button as I touch the wall in the pool. Such an expensive professional watch should have fully waterproof buttons that don't die in simple lap swimming.
It would be nice if Garmin helped explain some of the differences between the watches. The fact that they try to make the Instinct 2X just seem like a larger model of the instinct 2 is so dumb. Garmin just makes it all so confusing. I bought an Instinct 2 Solar a few months ago.
Am I the only one who don't get the hype for amoled? I genuinely prefer MIP screens, and would never even consider buying a garmin watch with an amoled screen
Imagine Garmin manage to combine the Transflextif Display with the Amoled.
Do you think that blood pressure will become a feature? I think only Samsung has that so far.
Garmin really jumped on the solar side w their bike computers and the Fenix 7 solar. Wondering if other companies will move that way?
Amazfit Balance?
Recently bought a Venu 3 but the watch feels just so stripped with even the most basic training features like Virtual Partner removed. This is such a simple feature and was even on my 245. Disappointed to say the least. Going more smartwatch way shouldnt need to mean less training features.
I have the Huawei Gt 4 and it's gotten only one update, and you can't even aware in coming social media calls it's just an expensive smart band, Huawei is calling it a smart watch they need to have social media call answering and more updates they don't care about their smart watch brand. I think it's only there to have in their brand name! Huawei You Need to Shape up!
What watch do you decide to strap on and go home with?
What about coros apex 2 pro???
Anectodal evidence supporting the Suunto Vertical optical HR findings comes from my own testing. I have a Suunto Vertical, Garmin Fenix 7 solar sapphire and a garmin forerunner 965. The Suunto HR is absolutely horrible. Always reads wildly high. The garmin watches alse tend to run high in some very specific use cases, but removing the watch from my wrist, letting the hr reading zero out, and putting the watch back on always solves those issues. I have never found a fix for the Suunto, and with all the training features and metrics the app supportsbeing largely based on HR reading during an activity, that is a major major bummer. I would have that watch on my wrist right nowas the build quality is waybetter than Garmin, and i like the training metrics better, and the battery life is insane, but the HR sensor just breaks the deal for me
I hate wearing rings, or watches so I really never find a tracker I like. I wish there was an ankle bracelet version or some version that I could wear on my body that isn't seen or exposed.
What about huawei ultimate?
No Huawei watches? They have incredible heart rate sensors, dual band Gps, great battery life and also they look great!
Year In Review video already? where did days go... time to work and watch/listen to this video. Ray's wrists are so white :D reminds me of my own left wrist during the summer. Btw, how do you guys know each other? Friends from before YT or trough "influencer world"? :D
Did you test gbd h2000
What is some of your top rated watches? We would love to see your top picks for budget, running, hiking, smartwatch ect.
I feel the enduro will go the way of the Samsung note, where it just becomes a fenix 8X just like how the Samsung note was replaced by Samsung S23 Ultra.
Problem with Garmin is they have too many products that are confusing for customers. Most of their watches use same hardware and features are limited at software level (paywall).
Where are the huawei watches: " Ultimate - 4Pro - GT4" ????
I would have loved to also hear what these companies are doing in terms of environmental sustainability as well. :)
My brothers in Christ this YouTube video is almost two hours long
Xmas came early this year
where is Coros vertix 2?
No talk about Coros being hostile towards reviewers like DC?
no FR 955/255?
i feel like you guys tend to downplay how important the app integration is.....for example, casio app suuuuuuuuuucks bad, while polar is ok, garmin is great, zepp app is ok, coros is decent, galaxy and apple obviously have great apps, annd etc..
If there is no meaningful difference between producing Suunto Vertical in Finland and Suunto Race in China so why the Vertical is so much more expensive than Race ?
If everything went to amoled displays, maybe the next Epix will be called Fenix 8. Then the name Epix could be in a vault for 7 years before they test something again.
Garmin need to get rid of the epix line and just call it Fenix 8 AMOLED.
Garmin needs to increase updates to old watches. If I spend 7-800 on a watch I want it to last. If Apple had  14 day battery life, I might dump Garmin. Might. Watches aren’t free. Oh and ant+
Battery Life is so bad on Pixel Watch 2 makes it totally impractical. Sold mine after a few months
The Vivoactive/Venu naming conventions are SO confusing.
Tactix bands break in within about 2 months and after 4 months it isn't noticeable
Should include eco-systems in these reviews. That sets apart brands like Polar
No Huawei watches?
These year-end reviews expose my compulsion to buy new watches…I purchased 4 of these, and last year it was 5. Either I’ve got to stop buying so many, or you have to stop doing these roundups!
No Huawei GT4 ?? Big mistake..great running device with way better HR tracking than most Garmins.
Where is the WHOOP? I been getting non stop adverts for it last few weeks
Apple Watch Ultra 2!
About Garmin business practices:
They just canceled my order because they "didn't like the delivery address" 
Well, excuse me for living on the wrong side of the tracks!
So i called, reordered and woman on the phone told me "if accounting doesn't like the address, it will get cancelled again"
SERIOUSLY, GARMIN!?!?!?
I get packages delivered there all the time and you get a wild hair up your ass over my address??? 
So i may or may not receive my order.
If they cancel on me again,i will dump Garmin like a hot, steaming turd.
I feel bad for these poor pigeons flying around just to give us good gps tracks!
Good video but tough to listen to with all the "uh hmms" while the other person is speaking. It's not just you guys. It happens a lot on Youtube.
"Do we have LESS watches...?" You should have said, " Do we have FEWER watches?". Good it? if you can count them , say "Fewer"!!
I gotta ask, what the hell do you keep looking at off to your left. Very distracting
Watch nerds
This video isn't nearly long enough.  I'd expect at least 10 hours for that many watches.  Next time do better guys.  😆
More than 20, more next year … what an ecological disaster !
Thank you 
I have the Forerunner 255. I tried out the Venu 2 Plus but it didn't have all the performance measurements for training. So I couldn't have it for long. The Forerunner 255 solves those problems. I mainly use the Instinct Solar, insane battery performance on that.
Amazing video! Quick, straight to the point, and informative. Thanks!
I was searching for this kind of video! Thank you for this! Good quality. Keep on!
Thank you for a great video, now i know which are the watches i want it.. now down to only two, venus 2 plus or epix
i have the tactix 7 pro. i'm happy with it
Forerunner 955
My first Garmin bought 2 weeks ago. Epix gen 2. So cool watch. And the battery time is so long. The watch is beautiful to look at   as a regular watch as well. Good video 👌🏻
I have been test driving the Epix Gen2 Pro Sapphire and absolutely love it. going on 16 days out of the box without a charge! It still states I have 5 days left which is amazing. I'm used to my galaxy watch 5 pro lasting 1-2 days max and not doing half as good a job with fitness tracking. Needless to say, I've converted. The Epix is statying!
I need something to track calories burned and set up interval training workouts
Instinct is a refreshing smart watch, simple to use, does everything I need, no fluff or other shite
no model number for the video quite confusing which model for some clips
This video is such high quality production and great content. How come there aren’t like 100000 comments already? This is my first time hearing about Garmin. Thank you for the video
Where do you guys recommend buying from
Great video. Thanks. I’m trying to decide on first Garmin rather than do standard upgrade to Apple Watch ultra. I like the look of premium build ones as also look so smart when at work / in suit etc. worries will regret not having apple but these look so cool
I got so sick of smart watches with a day or 2 of battery life. I got a good deal on the instinct and have been so happy with it. For me personally I don't care about the screen being amoled at all.
Garmin 245 is the best budget buy for me 👍🏻
Why would you buy any Garmin Approach watch that has NO trade up?????
there';s no forerunner series
forerunner 255/955
I have the Fenix 7S Pro Sapphire Solar.  I chose Fenix over Epix because i have tiny wrists and can only wear the S so i didn't want to sacrifice more battery life to AMOLED.  I really really really love it 😊 it tracks all my workouts and my hikes, my swims, my sleep, it's got everything i need.
have 3 new garmin watches the company is not standing behind its product , poor customer service, poor company policies except  keep paying and we will update your watches.
Good video but forerunners are not mentioned, big oversight imho!
Being a para triathlete, this is huge. Although I’ve still used garmin I was wondering when they was going to include tracking for handcycling etc.
Great review. Thanks for covering the in and out. Any reason why the Venu 2 Plus comes with a stainless steel back where as the newest Vesnu 3 has the same old plasticky/fiber back?
Hey Des! Do you know if the nap tracking will become available on other Garmin devices like the 265 or 255 any time soon?
Thanks!
I LOVE the Venu 3 - I came from years of Polar and wanted to try a new ecosystem.... I ❤ Garmin. Body battery & stress reports are phenomenal.
That was the coolest call done on YouTube. Ever. 🎉
Thank your for your in-depth videos! Both this video and the comparison video of the Venu 3 and Forerunner 265 helped me making a decision regarding my purchase :)
As always a great, informative review.
Exciting quiet launch of the Venu3, nice review!Will be interesting to see how the Venu 3 will compare to anticipated upcoming Apple Watch 9 and ultra 2. Early request to compare Apple Watch 9 vs Venu 3, and Apple Watch Ultra 2 vs Fenix 7 which pricepoint and features are similar
Nice review. Could you make a video for strength training in the Venu 3 to see if there's any improvements to the older Garmin watches?
Really looking forward to your venu 3 vs. 265 comparison 👍🏼
I really like the step you each walk through the setting and your information is very knowledgeable and firm to learn and understand.  Keep it up. I alway like your detailing and live scroll motion and explanation
So many models it's so confusing already 😂 But thanks for this review! Are there anymore new models coming out this year? Can't wait to purchase my first Garmin watch.
Thank you very much @DesFit for the video, as always very interesting. One question that is not clear to me about this model. Does it support "multisport" mode? I've seen that it can be used for open water swimming... but I haven't seen the "multisport" option. Thank you,
Could you make timeline bookmarks in the longer videos? Thanks 😀 Love the videos btw
This is a great video. Thanks so much for all the data!
Awesome reviews as always! Thank you
Thank you for the insighful review as always 😀
Thanks for a great review. What about hiking which is missing in other lider watches ?
Hey Des, you fo an really amazing job with this videos! Do you really think this is the best garmin watch at this point? I'm curious if I should get Venu 3 or Epix 2? An answer would be highly appreciated
and i thought my google watch was handy.... might have to make the switch this is seriously impressive!
Great review! Sucks that Garmin don't do a trade in program. Do you think it's worth upgrading to venu3 from venu2 plus? I'd like a bigger watch than the 43mm venu2 plus i have and pondering whether this uograde is worth it.
Hi Des,  is the glass completely flat or does it have a slight bulge?

Like the FR265, I’m concerned with not being able to properly apply a screen protector.
Top video Des. Well done. ❤
If I already have an Edge 540, would the rides that I record be reflected on the venu 3 and be a good companion between the 2 devices?

I initially wanted a 265 but held off because of no speaker/microphone. 

I would look at full stats on the phone app?
Great video, does it broadcast HR for zwift like the Venu 2?
Hell that a ton of information 😉 thank u buddy. U earned the subscribed
I am hoping a lot of these new features are coming to my Fenix7
I have the original Venu which I love - do we think it's better to go from that to the 3 or save some cash and get the 2 plus?
Can't wait to see this vs the 965
I have Venu 3S. It honestly is the best lifestyle tracking+fitness watch that I've had and it's also the best looking one.
Des you are my favorite reviewer of YouTube. Would be interesting a comparison between this watch and the forerunner 965. They looks so close
Awesome review. Looking forward to the forerunner comparison, so I subscribed 🎉
Des how does temperature work? Thx jeff ps excellent review 🇺🇲
Awesome! Didn't got if it has automatic DND while sleeping. Thx
Gosh I just love your thoughtful reviews. Didn't even know this was announced. Looks like a worthy successor, though I miss the metal around the face like in my 2s. Or maybe it's there and just not obvious in the black color. Anyway at least I know what to do if my 2s gets lost.
The sleep coach is pretty interesting! Great video again!
Great review as always 🎉 so far I am just getting more tired of waiting when all the new feautures will drop to FR965!!!
Any input if the sleeping coach would be coming to the 265 or the venu 2/2+?
All I miss is Google Pay and that would be it for me. Nice review. 😊
Thank you!
Ese crossover fue epico
Thanks Des, quick question: the Garmin launch video briefly showed “text images”, as in when you receive a notification on your phone that contains an image that image will show up in the notification on your Venu 3. Can you share more info on this feature, app compatibility, limitations, etc?
The hr sensor on this is best in class in combination with light casing.
How many songs can be loaded onto the watch? Also can you pick which song to listen to? I have the Venu 2S, & it can only play playlists-you cannot pick a specific song in the playlist. It either plays in the order of the playlist or you can shuffle.
Great video.  But a spreadsheet style with what’s new would b great.
Looking forward to your FR265 vs Venu 3 comparison
I wish they made a Fenix watch that looked like this and had the voice function. The venu is lacking too many features for the price…and I want gps maps and Backcountry skiing mode. I guess Forerunner 965 is the best in between. Or AWU… but neither seems as rugged as a Fenix/Epix with sapphire glass. And Venus look great.
Brilliant brilliant video 🤠 thanks 👍
Hi Des
Need an update on 14.31 firmware on epix gen 2. What all included cis a vis pro series. Looking forward.
I know it is not a smartwatch primary, but would be great if you would test more the Notification part as well. That could be useful for many. Thanks
Wow, I'm waiting for the built-in microphone! 

Is there any new app to use it to record voice memos, like the Apple Watch does? I'm excited to jump to another boat!
Great video, as usual.  Any chance you can post a comparison between the Venu 3 and the Epix 2?  I love the Epix and I'm curious how this compares
This might be worth upgrading from my venu sq 2 just for the double in battery life
Thanks for the video! Any thoughts on the 'Venu 3 vs Apple Watch Series 9' comparison? Both are in the same price range, and the main difference I found is the battery life. What are your recommendations/thoughts? :)
Is that sleep coach gonna come to the epix ? That’s cool
Hard to admit but when you and dcrainmaker publish a review on the same thing on the same day, it’s yours that I watch first!
Thank you for the video! 😊 Is the HRV/body battery on the Venus 3 as good as on Fenix 7?
Does it mean that we can use Garmin Running Dynamics pod with Venu 3 now?
Nice review, Des!  I'm guessing they did not offer training load metrics as that would cannibalize sales of the Forerunner 265.  Does that sound accurate?  Looks nice and it has tennis!
I think the best new feature is adding open water swimming, which Venu doesn't have also don't think Venu 2 has either.
What about activities like indoor climbing and bouldering? Are they still there?
And what about all the informations... can i watch them also in garmin connect app?
Do notifications from news apps, inwta, whatsapp etc contain inages or are pocture notificarions for  messages only? If picture notifications are enabled for all apps that would be fantastic
is the always on display brighter  compared to the venu 2 plus?
do you think that venu can make it during trekking (GPS accuracy)....for example canyon crossing ....or should i buy epix or fenix ?
Any measurements of the lug to lug length?
Hi, are those new features available in epix pro 2 ?
As a beginner\ medium trainer the VENU 3 is great overall watch,  the advance sensor as the pro watches which cost double' the ECG test, phone assist with answering calls is great' wish it was lte mode but in general,  LOVE IT
Excellent video! always watch it. Does it have aerobic/anaerobic effect? Thanks in advance!
This is an absolute wonderful review I think I'm going to return the Google pixel 2 for this watch
12:12 wasn't this feature already available in the newer forerunners? (55s and 65s)?
Will nap feature come to the forerunner 965 eventually?
You get a ‘like’ for the Tinder function joke.

Nice job Des!
Great Review Des, thank you! If I only care about health metrics and my main activity is weight lifting (and just little cardio), which one would you choose, Venu 3 or 265?
Hey Des, can you disable the touchscreen during an activity, like the Fenix?
Great review. Can you please tell which watch you have on your right wrist. It looks stunning!
Thank you for the overview ~ just got a Venu 3S. I cannot locate how to add Distance to my Indoor Cycling workout, where would I add that on the watch or on my Garmin Connect phone app? Much Appreciated!
Driving a truck effects my fitbit will this add steps while I'm driving? And how durable are the straps and attachments?
Are the software features of venu3 coming to venu2 plus?
Will update come to venu 2 plus?
Hello! Is there a possibility to listen to audio alerts about the pace during training without headphones?
Looking forward to your venu 3 vs. 265 comparison. Still wondering which is a better upgrade from a Venu gen1.
Thank you for a great video. Does the venu 3 show actual altitude (not just elevation gain)? Want to use it in mountaineering.
Thanks for that review! I've seen on the Garmin website that you can view photos sent to you on the watch. 
Do you know if someone sends me an image in WhatsApp if it can be viewed on the watch? 
Thanks!
Have Garmin improved their incident detection for the Venu 3 do you know? I have a Venu (1) and the incident detection occasionally generates false positives. Unfortunately on the Venu, even if you spot the false positive and abort the incident detection, it still ends the recording of the activity with no way to continue it. It's a very annoying 'feature' of the device.
please release a comparison between FR 265 and Venus 3 soon! We would appreciate it!
Could you do a video comparing venu 3 to the forerunner 965. 

Switching from Apple Watch, so not sure which is better when switching from apple
Looking to buy Venu 3. What size do you think I should get with a 170mm wrist???
Looking at replacing my Apple Watch S6. Looking at the Venu 3 but was wondering what’s the best (closest to same price) closest garmin that has physical buttons?

Edit: I know this has 3 physical buttons but I’m talking more about the g shock style watches :)
Dont really see much difference between this and Venu 2 plus. Please advise if you think it's worth changing/upgrading if one already has a venu 2 plus ?
Hi Des, I think I missed an explanation how navigation works  and some screenshots how it looks.
where you can get this data with graphs in the end of video?
Do you know if the respiration rate is now accurate?
Thanks Des 🙏🏻
Great vid but amazon link not up yet?
Can the Venu 3 be connected to 2 or more mobile devices simultaneously?
Des, the Amazon affiliate link doesn’t seem to be working. Thanks.
Could you recieve indications of Google maps on your Venu 3 if you are using it on your Phone?
Does this have a mode for football/soccer? Would be great to be able to track rough distance ran on pitch hesrt rate and even sprints made
Des, please create video venu 2 vs venu 3
Great video, very informative🙏🏼 Which watch are you wearing on your wrist during the video?
Hi!What about skin tempeture?It is working?If has it..
How accurate is it with HIGH bmp?
would you recommend it for swimming sports and Crossfit?
Hi Des, what is limit of the range for calls, texts etc?.. is it phone within same room or does it still work say phone upstairs whilst you're downstairs?
I'm currently using an old beat up 935 that is showing its age.  I'm on the fence between the Venue 3 & the 265 so looking forward to that next video.
Given the lighter weight, is the optical heart rate tracking more accurate than the Fenix 7 Pro (47mm)? Thanks.
Do we know when nap tracking comes on other devices??(fenix 7,epix etc)
When i got fenix 7 and i realise that such an expensive watch wont track naps i went bananas!!
Great vid. Super funny you called Ray because I have his video queued up next to watch. Also, will be on the lookout for the 265 (maybe add some 965 perspective too) comparison vid!
Hope the the steps Count is more accurate... On the Venu 2 music it counts step in sleep.
Is there an altimeter? Going to trek Everest base camp and need a smartwatch
Does it have training score please?
Is it worth it to upgrade from the venu 2 ?
Thanks! Is there a smart wake function now?
Shame it first appeared to have a rotating bezel, but I turns out it's not. I've been using a Samsung Gear S3 for about 5 years now and I love my rotating bezel.
Now I want to sell my Venu 2 Plus,  but I wonder if they will have a Venu 3 SQ??
Do we know garmin venu 3 sq release date? I would love to buy it
Does this offer turn by turn nav?
Didnt even know this watch came out
Tracking naps!
I hope they add the ECG in the near-term. I just got one this week, and I like it. I have Fenix 6 Pro, too, and so it's a noticeable difference: the pro is that it's very lightweight and wrist-fitting. The Con is I missing my World Time app.
I wish they'll push the nap feature to older devices, shouldn't be too complicated
Can't wait fr the 265 comparison - they're the exact same price with a lot of similarities so I'm really on the fence (upgrading from 1st gen Venu).
Looking forward to watching the fight video : 265 VS Venu 3 .
Hello from Strasbourg Des 😉 #baguette
Did they fix the bands issue? I had a Venu 2 plus that 3rd party bands would fall off of 😢
Does the training load/status information match that of the Fenix series? Does it provide the same information in the Connect app? I am not really cincerned about Training Readiness but I do use the training load function and it is unclear how much of that data made its way to this watch.
Do you think Garmin will bring hrv status to the venue 2 plus?
does it also measures your skin temperature or not...
No trail running mode?
Hello! Can you please tell me if this watch shows RING notifications at all? Even if it just says ‘RING’ I don’t need to see who is at the door? Thank you!!!
Will some of the new software features get rolled back into Venu2 / 2 Plus? Like the sleep coaching, body battery etc etc..
Any update on the 8 sleep? I'm thinking of getting one.
Is there an Apple Watch besides the ultra idk about? I can only get a day and some hours with the series 7 since day one
Compare vs Apple Watch SE 2, please?
I want all the health sensors and fitness sensors, and also I want mp3 music in my watch. Which Garmin (or any other watch) do you recommend? I really don't care about LTE or messages in that watch. Only health and finess (includding VO max, gps tracking (without a cell phone), health reports, etc...). Thank you...
Which Garmin watch has the best V02 Max feature? Thanks!
Is the display smoother than Epix 2? My epix 2 feels lagging when I am swiping down the glances.
Does Venu 3 have the same Golf support in the Venu 2 Plus?
Hi, when i'd like to use both an Vivo 3 and an Epix pro (Venu 3 with it's Smartphone Features as a "Daily Driver" and the Epix for longer Sportstours..), is there ONE "Trainings-Readyness and  Trainingsstatus" in the Connect App? What about the Sleeptracking? Has this to be done always with the same watch?  Greetings ✌️
Garmin is at a point where they need to simplify their product line. 2–3 generations ago there were clear differences between feature sets. At this point, all of these watches do more than 99% of what most users need. The difference between this and an epix or fenix is pretty marginal.
Could you do a Venu 3 vs Forerunner 265 comparison? I am now going back and forth between the two, because it looks like they are so similar. Thanks!
Is the voice assistant any better than on the 2 plus?
Thanks for the review ! Can't wait for the comparison with the 265 now to decide which one to buy. I don't run, but I want to buy a watch for cycling. Which one would fit the bill better according to you ? Also, I didn't quite understand the last part about VO2 Max. Can you get it with the venu 3 or not ? Do you need a power meter ? Is there a difference on this side with the 265 ?
I was very surprised how accurate the GPS was on the Venu 3
@DesFit This was a super helpful video! Thank you! Did you find any difference in the degree of accuracy between the Venu 3 and Venu 3s at all? I know sometimes a larger, heavier watch can be less accurate than a smaller, lighter watch. As a female with slender wrists, I would be more inclined to choose the 3s. However, they don't do a black case option!! (I only want all black everything all the time haha) and it means a sacrifice in battery life. So those two factors would tempt me towards tolerating a larger watch than would perhaps be ideal for my wrist size. However, accuracy is what matters at the end of the day! Thanks 😊
Des, can the middle button (3 o'clock) be totally disabled? Or how hard is it to accidentally depress that button? I'm a bigger guy who wears his watch close to the wrist and I'm triggering my Assistant constantly with a similar button layout on a Fossil. Anytime I bend my wrist back. I told myself I'd never again buy a watch with that button placement. But other than that this looks like my next watch. Thanks!
How does the screen wake up time in wrist gesture mode compare to epix gen 2? I found the original venu to be just a little too laggy. The epix gen 2 is just good enough.
So what’s the features I’ll get going from Venu 2 plus? I’m a little overwhelmed and not an expert to understand all info in this video.
Does the nap also have a score and is added to sleep score at the end of the day?
Great review, as always! I love this watch! Might be the model suitable for my wallet.
Gaming tracking mode 😂 I start to feel like athlete soon lol
Hello I have a quick question hoping you can help: The voice assistant...... Do you know if you can use that to audibly add a calendar event into your Google calendar?   In my vehicle I say "hey google, make me a calendar entry", it then asks me "what's the title of your event?",  I say whatever it is.... it asks me if I want to save it, etc... trying to find out if the voice assistant on this watch works the same Thanks!
How is this vs the new Amazfit balance?
When is Garmin Fenix 8 coming? Please.
Is that an official Garmin meditation app I see? 13:12  I don’t think we have that on the Epix.
Always enjoy your reviews and humor!
As a female with small wrists, I really appreciated you showing both sizes.  But I seriously want to know how many people have time for naps?!?!
I do 4x a week CrossFit, how can I use venu 3 for CrossFit?
Does the Venue 3 have a built in Kayaking activity? I know the Venue 2 does not.
Hmm, I bought the fr955 last year and love it, but I wish it had the ability to talk and text. The Venu 3 looks like it does everything the fr955 does plus talk and text! Darn you Garmin! Anyone know what a fr955 can do that this can't?
What is the quality of haptics? I had Fenix 6x and Epix Gen 2 and both were no where near the quality of apple watch for instance. Did the vibration improve? How would you rate this against suunto race which I am also considering?
Total elevation gain on the Venue 3 was really different on the first comparison at timestamp 14:22
@DesFit If you don’t care about notifications or phone calls but you care about sport and fitness. What would you choose, the forerunner 965 or this Venu 3? Does this new sensor really make a huge difference?
Hi, thank you for the video. Does it show current speed (for instance while running or biking for me to be able to keep the same speed)? Thank you!
Hy, how long is the vibration by an incoming phonecall?, the same do the venu 2 plus,  or 2x wie epix.... mfg
So we can assume that Vivoactive 5 will be delivered in the nearest feature? I love transflective display on my Vivo 4.
Does the exercise information feed into the Apple fitness app?
Can i ask something, when i try to make a call it in the venu 3 the microphone and the speaker doesn't work at all what should i do to fix that problem?
the only concern about this device is the launch price: 500 euros is a bit too much considering other brands...
A lot of this just feels like software updates that could and should be on the Venu 2 Plus or even the Venu 2
@desfit do you have any idea if garmin will add the triathlon mode to the venu 3 ? Due to the fact it now can track open water swim. It would be nice to see it on the venu 3 for the not pro athlete triathloner 😅
is it medically certified?.
Hi, could you please provide some information or a video or reference on how the watch works for navigation? I am interested in using it for climbing or biking. I would like to upload a route as a GPX file and use it as turn-by-turn navigation. What kind of maps does the watch use? If not, what external apps can be used for this? Is this watch suitable for my needs?
Problem is that this costs 2x the Garmin Venu 2 price where I live, which still costs almost the same as it did approx. 2 years ago. Making the Venu 3 a completely other price category. Big NONO for an upgrade for me.
👍🏻 Why not a vs Garmin 955 or 965? How do you compare all the gps tracks in one map?
It's fascinating how the new sensors aren't better than the old ones - looking at that bioengineer guy who tests watches against medical level test equipment, the Garmin watches are kinda lumped together on his graph, old and new sensor watches all together...

(note, I'm a Garmin user/lover, my comment is about the new sensor doesn't seem like a huge upgrade)
As a new parent nap time is necessary to make up for the nights where we avg 4hours lol
It's a shame Garmin does not have a Vivoactive 5.
Imagine all the battery life you can get if they had used a Transflective display.
Does the HRV show in the app or is it a «fake HRV» as someone called it?
Difference with this Venu 3 and Forerunner 265 please Des? I have Venu 1 for 3 years, just bought Forerunner 265 and just don't like it - I can't add my own watch face from the Connect IQ app, can only use faces already on the 265 - Well I definitely don't want that (because of my eyesight, 59 years old). Plus the 265 screen is not as big as I was visually expecting it to be. Many thanks for your fantastic in depth video 🙏😊
what material is the back made of? I had to take my Fenix 6x Pro off because of severe redness on my wrist
Venu 2 plus or venu 3 ?
Is there a big difference between this and venu 2 plus ?
How many years of software updates does Garmin provide?
i think it it such a good move that you have a lot of screen time of the venu 3 just on you wrist and shooting from above. This shot while you are swiping through the menu's makes it very clear.
Is it fair to say that the Venu 3 is a better pick over the 265 for someone that does an equal mix of HIIT sprinting/weight lifting/cycling/walks ? It seems like its more of an all-rounder versus the 265 which is very running centric. The 5th gen HR monitor looks like a big upgrade for accurately tracking HR for HIIT hill sprints and weight lifting.
I’ve watched all the review because I’m new to the channel and because I’m really interested in the new Venue. Unfortunately you didn’t say anything about if sleep tracking is good and reliable or not. And I understand it is not simple as measure hearth it etc but that’s it. If a company pushes a lot about a feature we should find if it’s saying the truth before spending 500$!! Like my samsung Galaxy watch: lots of features and everything but then a lot in sport and health tracking is wrong 😢
Just bought samsung watch 6 classic 47mm just to try. I'm gonna sell it and buy venu 3.
No compass and baro on glances???
The one you are wearing?
For me one of the most important feature that is missing on Venu2 compared to Forerunner series is the ability to "resume-later". Does that feature exist on Venu3?
Still waiting for comparison video with FR 265 what will I missed if I pick up venu 3 instead of 265
What a shiny new Garmin, yes, I want one. Can you send me yours after you're done reviewing, please?
Really looking forward to the venu 5 with 14 days always on display 😊
Does the venu 3 have a flashlight like the Epix pro? I seen it in the menus but you didn't sho the hardware
Does Venu 3 series come with training effect and readiness?
Good review. I don't get though how the Venu 3 is different enough from the Forerunner 265. And both are rather bad value compared to the Pace 3. I enjoy the Garmin ecosystem, it has many motivatiors. But I also feel like they increased their prices sharply over the past 12 months. Not gonna spend close to 500 Euro for a watch when the Pace 3 is HALF of that. I even prefer MIP screens to OLED (currently on an oled watch).
Venu 3 or Fenix 7?
How will you compare this VS the 265/965? Looking to make a decision between the 2 ranges.
Can you have the screen lock during activities like the Forerunner 965?
Is the rotating bezel functional like the galaxy watch?
Thank you for being probably the only reviewer online that not only told the viewers how big your wrist was but also showed both models next to each other for comparison! Not even findable on the website of Garmin, so please keep it up and thanks for your work!
Venu 3 = FR265 - triathlon + various modes + mic/speaker + sleep coach+ bigger display?
I am having a hardest time to choose between Venu3 vs Fenix 7. I love Venu3 with design but it doesn't have a map but Fenix7 is durable but not a best fit for dress up purpose...
What language are you learning on duolingo?
Looks like a proper upgrade to my Venu 2, but sadly they don’t offer a sapphire option, what for example the galaxy watch 6 offers for 100€ less. My Venu 2’s display got scratched heavily after a very short time of use.
I own a Venu 2 (not plus). Do you think it worth the upgrade? I will notice real world improvements?
i've got a specific question , i currently have the garmin edge 840 and a polar H10 chest hrm.
what happens if i also go riding with the venu 3? which HRM would the garmin take input from ?
Hello. Please could you help me out here….I’ve just received my Garmin Venu 3, is it possible to access my contacts on the Venu 3 watch that l have stored on my Apple iPhone?
Lots of new functionality here but Garmin missed a huge opportunity with that swipe right / Tinder option.   😂
Let’s hope that Garmin does the right thing and bring software updates to the current Venu 2, which includes some of those features. Notably the hrv, recovery and sleep training features. Otherwise Garmin is going to turn into a hot potato brand, which one would just like to drop in favour for brands that continue to support and update their products.
Hi, quick question, you say you can make a call if your within range of your phone, how far/long is the range that you can make a call or recieve text?
Do you have an Apple Watch 9 Vs. the Venu 3 slated to review? I’ve been an Apple Watch user for 6-7 years but haven’t been able to make a choice on what Garmin is best for me
You showed how the voice assistant works when iPhone is unlocked. But the only use case of using the voice assistant is to use it when the iPhone is in the pocket for example. Hence the main question is how voice assistant would behave when phone is locked and in the pocket. Also I noticed that you haven't mentioned that sometimes users experience lag in VA work. Is this review just an advertisement of the product or real review?
How is this compared to the Samsung Watch 4 Classic?  Looking to upgrade.....also I  use a Google Pixel 7 Pro
Hey Des, great review! Do you think we'll get the sleep coach and naps feature on the newly released Fenix Pro and Epix Pro? 

I still watched the whole review, even though I just upgraded from the 6x to the Epix pro based on yours and Ray's reviews. 😂👍
Did you see my comment on DCR's 21 New Features Tested! 🤓
Worth it upgrading from the venu 2 plus? I bought it less than 2 weeks ago.
Does someone know, if the Venu 3 is working normally even with a tattooed arm? I have problems with the apple watch - it cant read my heart rate - with my garmin Instinct (1) its working better - but not always....
Fenix 7X Pro Solar
Can anyone tell me what The venu 3 is missing with its features compared to garmin 265? Does venu 3 have trainibg readiness and so on?
does this have a moon phase?
Venu 3 Has navigation and maps like in Fenix/epix watches?
still waiting for the venu 3 vs. forerunner 265 comparison 😅
Does it have maps? If they didn't add maps, then it is worthless.
No training load or training effect?
Why compare it to the 265 and not the 965 forerunner?
Can you switch to wheelchair mode directly from the watch, please?
can use an apple watch ultra and a garmin 965 at the same time on one Iphone 13 pro max or an apple watch ultra and one of these in this video.
Does it have training readiness?
Whats the difference between the venu 3 and the 265? I recently bought the 265 and should still be within the return window
no ecg support? :/ I was looking forward to this venu 3, guess I will nee to settle for the 2 Plus….
Hi, can you please test the open water activities for this? Thanks
I am confused. Shall i go with this or forerunner 965?
Same old Venu :))
Whats the difference between venu 3 vs forerunner 965?
Training effect?
too many models and I decided not to buy. I need the ECG function on the Epix but it doesn't have it
@Desfit can you do a comparison between the Forerunner 965/265 and Garmin Venu 3? It would also be a great video seeing as all 3 watches came out within 3 months

Specifically are the following missing in the Garmin Venu 3?
* Exercise load (aerobic and anaerobic during workout)
* Endurance score
* Hill score
* Mapping during running
* Run metrics like cadence
Would you say the 45mm is too big for a woman’s wrist? Seems like it. I have an AW 45mm and will buy the Venu3, but the 45 looks way bigger while the 41 I don’t know yet? Suggestions??
do these ever go on sale? Best time to buy?
8m deeply dissapointed of my Fenix6x pro for not being able to track sleep. Why on earth am i forced to set sleeping interval? I work in shifts and i sleep 2X3-4 hours a day most of the time.
I’ve had the venu 2 for almost 2 years.. was looking forward to the venu3 . Kinda disappointed, doesn’t look any different
where is youtube music… months ago there was news that Google was going to allow or provide an app for this… 😢
550 euros here in NL. I just got my Fenix7 for 518 euros. Think the V3 is kinda overpriced. No training readiness, no navigation, no multiband..

edit: 449. I had the one with titanium band selected
This watch starting at $449 is a lil' too expensive for me. Garmin seems to be a niche brand with their high pricing.
If this has a google wallet app or similar i might just ditch my Galaxy watch for the Venu 3. Its really the only smart watch feature i need and use regularly.
The price is crazy, considering the newly released Amazfit Balance which beats this watch in every spec on paper and is at half the price.
Can this watch be charged wirelessly?
Forerunner 965 or Venu 3?
Can I use maps? Is there any app in the world Garmin can let me install and use maps easy with 1 click?
I hear the Venue 3 interface is very laggy is that true?
Does it have everything vivo 5 also has ???
Soooo Disappointed!. 😢
Some nice 'little' additions, clean design and improved accuracy which is great (also expected)
BUT
No 4g / LTE
No ECG
No blood pressure
It's a step backwards from Venu 2 plus imo
Great video. Thank you
So still no training load, recovery or advanced running metrics from garmins chest strap? Quite disappointing 😔
Can this new sleep coach wake you up when it thinks you have already rested well?
But no LTE?
Wireless charging?
Went back to using a normal watch as much as possible and only my Garmin when running to measure distance and HR. These watches were just too integrated into our lives. Like WTF, everyone should be able to figure out their sleep quality without a tool.
How about Apple Music?
This or epix 2 steel version for $400
It seems to be a great watch. I don´t like the UI in some parts. The rounded gradient lines in the widget view looks awful, Also some graphs within the widgets (what the hell are the white top corners?) It seems they are playing with UI Rules from early 2000´s just to focus on many colors of the OLED. Looks like made for kids... I wish the would make a better, simple UI. (I also don´t like the UI from the forerunner 965, it also looks childish. I hope, Garmin will let the clear design language in the fenix/epix watches but here, my wish is to bring the bigger, nicer font of Venu+965 watches. I also dislike the 50 euros higher price (germany).
Wait.. Did i just see "GAMING" on activity list 13:17 . Wtf 😂
If any Garmin employee is watching. PLEASE MAKE THE EPIX 2 WITH SMALL BEZELS LIKE THIS WATCH SINCE ITS THE MOST EXPENSIVE WATCH!?!? thank you 🙏
another new Garmin watch without wireless charging, I'm still with my FR945 waiting for wireless charging
When my apple watch battery loses more capacity... this or similar garmin watch will be my next one... The fact apple hasn't increased the battery life of the apple watch to date is unacceptable.
First!
I'm not really a fan of their color choices for the UI.
Ugh still no pace pro
No pause for training (resume later)?!?! Come on garmin wtf😅
Vertical screen scrolling in Garmin is crap. This doesn't fit the small touchscreen, your finger keeps covering the screen, which doesn't happen with the horizontal one
Neither you nor Ray commented on the quality of the watch. Is it because it's as plasticky as it looks?
No gsm phone in this watch??!  ☹☹☹☹
If this thing had pacepro it would be perfect for me. What a shame.
can reply  with keyboard to emails,sms,whatapp,steam chat.. i need answer before buy  thanks
The 965 is what I wanted the original venu to be back in 2019 and the venu 3 is what the 965 that just came out a couple months should’ve been. There’s really no need for a venu series at this point if it’s essentially a stripped down 965 with for whatever reason more detailed health metrics than the 965. Why inflate the market when you can just release one high end do it all watch (the epix) and then a cheaper alternative (the combination of a Venu 3/965) which is competitively priced with the standard Apple Watch and have it be miles ahead of the Apple Watch. Anything else is truly a waste of time and money for the consumer.
IMO, the Amazfit GTR 4 offers a ton more value and cost 60 percent less.  Plus the amazfit has an excellent phone/mic speaker that works flawlessly.  Also does text and full amoled etc... And it gets 2 weeks on a charge.  Its really hard to pay over 400 for this when the competition offers similar specked devices for well under half that cost.  Plus the Amazfit has a magnetic charger which is superior to having to plug a cable into the device.  And will likely have less chance for cable terminal failure.  However, if controlling BT music with watch and doing voice assistance is important to you with a watch I'd get the Garmin.  However for me, when I do those things its just easier to use the phone app.  The Amazfit seems to put the things you need that you will actually use on a watch at a much better price point.
It didn't track my nap. 😤
I think a watch like the Ticwatch 5 pro makes the venu 3 have difficulties to justify the price tag. I am leaning towards getting the ticwatch 5 pro.
still no LTE suppoort pointless
the biggest flaw I have with the Venu is how abysmal the UI is. Like why does it move like something from 2002.
Can I use youtube like for 8 hours straight?
NO MAPS NO BUY !!
Ultra is still better
Come on Garmin, give us wireless charging 😡

Title: These are the most important features hikers need on their smartwatch
Description: Hikers need a watch that ensures you'll never get lost, or you can call for help if you do. These are my favorite brands and the things they do better than their rivals.
Content: (Image credit: Android Central)
In this weekly column, Android Central Fitness Editor Michael Hicks talks about the world of wearables, apps, and fitness tech related to running and health, in his q… [+10086 chars]

Title: I never expected to love the Apple Watch Ultra 2 so much, and now I'm in trouble
Description: I've tested the Apple Watch Ultra 2 for the past few months, and it's changed what I want from smartwatches. Worse, it's made me a fan of the squircle.
Content: (Image credit: Android Central)
In this weekly column, Android Central Fitness Editor Michael Hicks talks about the world of wearables, apps, and fitness tech related to running and health, in his q… [+8305 chars]

Title: Garmin Venu 3S review: A premium smartwatch experience with a smaller smartwatch design
Description: Garmin's Venu 3S is a smaller version of the Venu 3 that offers the same premium smartwatch functionality and advanced health and fitness tracking.
Content: When you buy through our links, Business Insider may earn an affiliate commission. Learn moreThe Garmin Venu 3S is a great premium smartwatch option for folks with narrower wrists or those who prefer… [+7938 chars]

