0:51 Garmin MARQ™ Athlete
3:02 Samsung Galaxy Watch Active
4:59 Coros VERTIX GPS Adventure Watch
7:22 Suunto 5
8:29 Garmin Forerunner 45, Garmin Forerunner® 245/245 Music, Garmin Forerunner® 945
12:06 Fitbit Versa 2™
14:10 Coros APEX Pro
15:45 Polar Ignite
17:16 Apple Watch Series 5
19:37 Samsung Galaxy Watch Active2
21:40 Garmin fenix® 6, Garmin Fenix 6X Pro Solar
25:26 Garmin vívoactive® 4, Garmin Venu
28:35 Garmin Swim™ 2
30:54 Garmin MARQ™ Limited-Edition Signature Set
These collaborative reviews are so appreciated
I just watched this review. I love your videos and I recently started reading Rainmaker. I made my mind on HRM band and watch considering both of your opinions.
I just love how seriously you take the reviews, how deeply and thoroughly is your analysis.
Great Review and overview of all watches, for me the 945 was the perfect watch in 2019, and it still improves. Thank you for that
Subscribed to you forever ago Des... happy to see you growing and doing so well.    Great collab!
Two of my favorites!!  Great video, as always.
Excellent stuff guys and couldn't be improved.  You guys are becoming quite a force in your industry - which is great news for consumers.
Reaaallly waiting for the Garmin Venu review! good video!
The wall clock is staring intensely!
I’m glad my Garmin Vivoactive 4 made it on the list! I absolutely love this watch, I highly recommend it!!
Two of the best creators! Well done.
After watching BOTH of your channels, I went for the Garmin 945. It took me over a year to decide and I couldn't be happier. Thanks guys 👍🏼
Great collaboration guys
Awesome Video. Thanks to both you guys for the great reviews you do :)
Great review. I wish there were more of these that are detailed and fair. Thumbs up.
Great overview and totally agree on the comments DCR made about the FR645. Really disappointed in Garmin that some of the features (like PacePro) of the X45 watches are not introduced on the 645.
Thanks for posting! I watched this as a reference for buying one as for my parents.
Epic, just watched it again as I wait for your 2020 edition.
great collab!
Good collaboration guys!
Enjoyed the review as always guys...I am actively looking for a new Great watch.  Being  an avid Suunto fan I recently sold my watch because the new software is lackluster.  Suunto needs to fix that.  So, right now I'm rocking an old Polar V800 and would really like to upgrade, but I am just not "feeling" the NEW watches yet.  Keep the reviews coming!  I'll know the right watch when I see it.
Great review. 

If given these data points as most important in order.....
-HR
-Calories
-GPS
-sleep tracking

What’s your best watch?
Great to see my two favourite reviewers in one space! Great stuff👏
Great recap of the year guys. 10K for the box set, really it's crazy. Money better spent on a Mechanical watch that will hold there value and even increase in value. I love my Garmin but let's be real there going to be out of date in 2 years technically anyways. So do you guys think the 645 will be updated anytime soon. One final question what watches were you guys wearing in this video? look like garmins not sure of the models. Thanks guys I'm a subscriber to both of your channels.
Hello, do you plan to review the vivomove style? I would like to know how it handles the gym. I have a vivosport and if I am doing anything other than running reads a heart rate close to my resting
I like how the Fitbit Versa 2 was a more throughout redesign compared to the Versa 1, but didn't get reviewed, but the Apple Series 5 gets reviewed despite adding less features and using the same design.
Fantastic review! 
So did Apple REALLY fix the heart rate issue in series 5? And when exactly.
A fancy card signed by a fancy dude?!?! SIGN ME UP!
Great overview of 2019 guys! Looking forward to watch your Swim 2 review Des!
Awesome video, thanks guys 💪.
Great review as always.
Found this channel because I was looking for Apple Watch reviews, love your stuff mate
A list of watches/bands than can broadcast with BLE/ANT+ (for zwift) would be my dream :D so hard to figure out on some of them
Great overview!
Two of my favorite reviewers in the same video? Amazing! I've died and gone to heaven.
Thanks for the reviews. I am looking for a better and reliable sports watch. This is very helpful. Great video. Thank you Gents!
Quality video gentlemen!
When will you do a review on the vivoactive 4
Great video. Enjoyed the comparison and loved seeing both you guys in the same review. One question, Is the Garmin Instinct not in line with these watches? I just bought one and am liking it so far.
You guys are amazing! Immensely high quality content! Bravo!
Great reviews Des & Ray, given the choice would be good to know your 2019 daily driver too (Shane too).
Will you do a direct comparison between the galaxy watch active 2 and apple watch series5? and perhaps some other smartwatches?
When will your review on Garmin Venu come? I'm looking to purchase it . Would be nice to have a review from you first
Amazing video. I am in a pickle to either get garmin Venu or an Apple Watch. I am trying to get active but I love to have a lot of metrics.
Who would have known THIS collab was in the works.🔥
Great collab
Great summary gents👌
Also I'm interested to know where you think the 735XT now sits in Garmin's lineup, considering they still list it as a current model on their site. Does something like the 935 really offer enough to justify the jump in price, or upgrading especially as the 735XT can be found with some great deals these days?
Cant wait for the 2020 edition !
Would be nice to see a review of the wear os watches like Fossil Gen 5
Got the Marq Athlete and I am happy with it. I bought it becaus I like the look more. It fits perfect for sport but also for the office
About screens ... I had the opposite reaction coming from a Galaxy watch to a Garmin transflective display, I thought this is so nice and I love it! I hope they keep a transflective options going forward!
God, i've been looking for a video like this one, thank you guys!
I just came here to hit the like button as fast as possible.
Ray is such a nice guy.
This was awesome
Good one!
Hard to beat garmin for all day use, have many diffrent watches and most things you need.
If they could make the design more like my IceBreaker tho..:)
Price is maybe to high, but around here it always is. And my IceBreaker was like 150-200$ less than my 6x Sapphire. I do notice IceBreaker this days is same price as the other Coros tho..:)
I think it's hard to beat the 245M for an incredible all round package. Only thing missing is Barometer for recording ascent/descent betrer. Other than that it's excellent.
Great video.. Loved your camaraderie and of course the content.. One question though on your comment on Venu, wondering how you managed to eke out 3+ days of battery life.. After 2 weeks with it, I just can't seem to get more than 2 days 😔.. Any tips?
Polar Vantage best for indoor swimming. Excellent HR, functionality and battery life.
I am proud owner and user of a Polar Vantage M. I tend to get tempted getting a Garmin, I earlier died for the Fenix line.  Now, well, I think the FR945 is the best watch looking at features and price - I wish it was tiny bit bigger. After watching many videos like this the Vantage M is absolutely not that bad at all.
great video
What do you recommend for mostly road cycling and maybe a little running in the future for under $350?
Great video
Ist a great video. Thank you so much... 😜👍
I’ve been with Polar for many years. My most recent is the M600 and M400. I use HR strap the H7 anyway but at the gym it’s nice to use the wrist base sensor and notifications features of the M600. My recent problems with the Wear OS and my iPhone X. I’ve also been an iPhone user for many years too.
So now I’m considering either change phones to an Android Wear Samsung or other Android smart phone. Or change watches to an Apple 4 or 5 so it plays nicely with my iPhones.
Do Apple watches have the ability to use a HR strap, like a H7 BT strap? Apple is obviously it’s not going to use Ant+
I know I have a problem. I own more than a few of these.  Great summary!
I really love my vivoactive 4
I Clicked like before even watching as both Premier sport watch reviewers in the same video.
You should take some pointers and structure this like MKBHDs Smartphone of the Year Awards. It would be cool to give awards for different categories.
Got the Garmin Venu. Love the screen. Had a fenix 5 before but was hard to see sometimes and very bulky. Happy to wear venu at work and in the gym (if I ever go to the gym that is)
Great collab guys!! However, I don't understand why you don't seem to review Amazfit devices: Amazfit bip, Amazfit Stratos 3 and so on... These devices are very popular in the budget fitness watch sector. Would it be possible for you to start noticing Amazfit 😜.... They are here to stay!
Compared to other garmin, polar... sport watches which one would you definetely recommend for runners in a range of 200-300$? By the way u are the best sport reviewers!Thank u lots!
Hey. Just searching for the best watch for myself. I thing Garmin Venu is the best solution for me. Just between smart watch and sportwatch. Is Ray from DC Rainman just wearing one right now? It is a tip for me as well :) many thanks for that video.
Love this, what watch is ray wearing in the review?
Which one would you say is the most accurate in measuring heart rate throughout the day? Accuracy is most important to me. (not interested in apple and wrist only)
Ray hit the nail on the head.  Coros' main competitive advantage is battery life.  If Garmin could find a way to mimic it or make their solar power watches affordable, Coros would be squashed.
I still reeeaaaally love my Fenix 5X (not the plus), I think I’ll wait until Fenix 7 or 8 to upgrade.
I'm Garmin fan. But battery does matter for me, as I always go for ultra. So, Vertix for me. (Already bought for 22 days, battery life was amazing!!)
Nice video,i do have question,what smart watch do recommend for bike only activity as that's main thing i like use and good heart monitor but i like maps on it to,and as in budget range,...so great videos
I think this is great!  Can you please place stats on a legend, superimpose to the left, or right.. faq data about what you are talking about??  Someone below indicates the time of the video per model..there is video editing software you can do that and help people who cant hear, or perhaps are at work? Perhaps a comparison chart of features of all watches in a full side by side comparison.. use all known smartwatch features in a grid, then layout price, model etc?
Hi des!!! I really want to know which sport/smart watch you use daily? please. Lol
hi,which model workout heart rate moniter more stable and accurate?
What watches in the near future are going to incorporate  all the sport activities including a dive computer within the same unit ??
Please review Huawei GT2 in the future
Awesome intro:)
I am consfused in between garmin vivo active 4 vs galaxy active 2. along with running I also play tennis regularly. so please suggest watch that has tennis mode in it.
Hi there, great video. Much appreciated. Just wondering when do u think the new Garmin fenix watch coming out? In other words, is fenix 6 still a good purchase in fall 2020, for a high end sports watch? Thanks
Which watch should I choose. I need accurate sleep, blood oxygen info, heart rate tracking (basically all health areas possible in a watch)... which watch is best for this?
for a value phone, is the garmin 235 too old tech? Looming to use primarily for occasional road bike use and gym
I switched apps from fitbit to S Health when google bought fitbit. S Health isn't bad at all imo.
Excellent video as always.. The other guy is not bad either.
After looking at all these watches I still think I want my next watch to get the Garmin Instinct
got my Vivoactive 4 today!
HI I used  235 and edge 25 for mtb , I saved up and upgraded to Fenix 5x and loved the training status and vo2 max recovery time,  Since covid 19  I've taken to Trail running and all my training status has gone, I get a message (run twice outdoors with a heart rate to see your status) does this mean none of these functions work only on flat roads or track running. is the fenix 6 the same ?
Just going to make a cofee, tighten up my vantage and start to watch 😉
Fenix 6 have way superior battery and gps, compared to fenix 5. For us hikers, that's a big positive. 

For those who are on the fence about the Fenix 6 Solar, here's the deal: Are you someone who use all the functions of the watch? Music, games, phone notifications, all the sensors 24/7. If so, then Solar is irrelevant because it's a matter of gaining an hour or so. On the other hand, if you're someone who primarily use a watch as a watch. If you go for a long-distance hike with barely any functions beside hourly tracking, then this watch is excellent. On Expeditionary mode, Solar will extend your battery life with an extra 50%.
I’m getting a Venu in another week or so. I wanted a 945 but it was bit out of my budget. Decision to get Venu was based on rainmaker review I read couple of days ago.
I've bought four sets. What? You guys are crazy rich!
I'll share MY experience if someone out there is looking to buy suunto watches:
I had a Garmin Fenix 3 hr sapphire, and thus i had a great software backing the watch, software that both reads and writes to strava, and keeps track of your resting heartrate and everything you do.
I bought the suunto 9 baro, a beautifull watch, but with software that doesn't even come close to garmin connect.
I'm missing a lot of features, especially the feature for suunto to read strava workouts and incorporate it into the suunto app for a complete overview, aswell as the watch actually reading what's in the app.
As of right now, i record all my workouts in zwift during snow-season, and none of these end up in the suunto app, i have to pay for a service that does it for me.
But they still don't end up on the watch, so when i look at my watch, it doesn't give me correct readings for stress and overall fitness score.

The watches from suunto are superb, the software is but a shell of what it could be.

If you want great software aswell, buy something else.
Made the decision to leave apple as a fitness watch.  Seems like the cycling function works well on all products.  Swimming is critical looking for durability and data on swimming and of course a low cost point.  Any recommendations?
Garmin fenix 5s died on moterosa sky marathon after 2 months of use. I am on suunto now.
Is spedition included in the 10 000 $ box?
Des ... do you wear the 6 or the 6X?  Also ... what activity would you recommend for rebounding (mini trampoline)?  Cheers
Hey! Nice reviews!!! Watched lots of your videos but can’t seem to get my mind on one choice...  I mainly do weight lifting and circuit training. What’s is the best watch for this type of training?  I do own a iPhone but I’m not the kind of guy to only buy apple stuff.  Saw Suunto and polar and I kinda like these too.  Is my best bet the Apple Watch 5???  Man I’m kinda lost 😳🤯. plz plz help me!!!
I thought for sure TomTom Cardio Spark 3 was going to be a game changer. I still wear it after buying it the first year it came out, but it's definitely showing its age. Takes forever to connect to GPS, takes forever to sync with my phone after completing a workout, online support is going away, haven't been an update for the app in months. So RIP, Cardio Spark 3 w/music.
Im looking for moderate active life, most of my exercises are gonna be pool swimming and gym workout, wanna have access to music, and monitor my daily wellbeing, especially stress level.

Can I have top 3 recommendation please?
you guys have access to all of these... which one, day in and day out for personal use when you are not testing/reviewing, is on your wrist.
The way that tape measure is mounted on that wall is bugging be hell out of me.
Getting the 945 December 25th 😀
hi thank you for this review, you guys are definitely the best out there. If I can add something, I was expecting a bit more details on the Fenix 6, it did have few new features that were ported to the 945 at later stage. I am using the Fenix 6 x for a while now and for my surprise some features are just useless, like the body battery works only if you wear the watch during the sleep otherwise just gives some random results based mostly on the time you set for sleeping hours. what is most annoying though, I am training mostly indoor on the treadmill because of the weather and for my surprise ALL the sport features, like Vo2max,  lactate threshold , training status do not work!! According to the watch I am not training at all even if I ran 50km these week, very disappointing.
best intro ever!
I have the Vivoactive 3 and I must say that I am disappointed in the battery life claimed vs reality. Then when I talk to the people at the store they say, “oh you must switch the Bluetooth off and switch off the backlight and switch off the heart rate monitoring and switch off the blah blah blah....”. Well then I may as well buy a blooming normal watch as with everything I switch off to save battery life, I lose part of why I bought the blasted thing. Heck, I may as well keep the watch off and only switch it on when I want to see the time.  I’m sure I’ll get great battery life then! I’m not a massive fitness fanatic, but love these watches for step tracking, heart rate and built in GPS, but boy oh boy, I’d love to get the advertised battery live.  So now I’m thinking of getting a Garmin Fenix 6 just so that I don’t have to stress about chargers when I go overseas for a week or into the bush for a week. Is that too much to ask?
I’m looking into smart watch/fitness tracker don’t have a big budget I’d like to know your opinions on the amazon watches under $120 Australian
I just bought a watch from 2017, Polar m430 incoming to help me keep track of my training. The price of this tech had dropped to 119 Eur and it seems to tick the boxes for me.
I just watched this, and i don't even wear watches.
As a Galaxy Note 9 owner, I was really hoping for a slam dunk with the Active 2. Sadly, it appears the HR tracking is not the most consistent. Thinking about picking up an iPhone, just so I can use an apple watch and have a more consistent experience.
which watch would you pick if you had 3 to 4 hundred dollars to spend for fitness and smart notifications?
I wished you guys pointed out which ones you both were wearing during the review. That was kind of like.....drop the ball moment. ijs.
Iam debating between garmine 745 and polar vantage m. Any help or opinions?
Congrats for the vídeos! At same price 645m or 245m?? Thanks!
Hey question I'm working out and my coach recommends to buy a sports watch that measures my rest, sleep, stress and heart rate. She recommend the Polar brand special de Ignite is this something you would also recommend? I also came across the Polar vintage m, Polar vintage v, Samsung active 2 and the Garmin 245 what would you recommend?
I'm a little bit confused here, I initially thought that the vivoactive 4 was the winner given the longer battery life given the fact Garmin didn't utilize the oled display as much (I got that impression from Ray's review as well) however here, you both seemed to be leaning more towards the Venu, please advise! I'm buying one the week
Des - Looking to replace an old Forerunner 220.  I am trying to stay in the $250 range.  I was looking at the Garmin 245, maybe 645 on sale, or the Coros Pace.  Mostly trail running, then mtn bike and road bike secondary.  Any thoughts between those 3 or should I look at others?  Just down I25 from you in Co Spgs :)
Garmin Delta's/Charly/Bravo Tactix are missing.
It sounds like 945 is the best watch as far as I can tell. If budget is not an issue what would you recommend, especially for running? I want as many features as possible. Does it make sense to wait a bit for another model? A bit surprised with Coros feedback but it does sound fair.
Really like both of these guys videos, but find it weird they never talk about how bad Garmin is at sleep tracking. Had the Venu for over a month and really loved it, but the sleep tracking was so useless I decided to return it. Focusing on fitness aspects is fine, but sleep/recovery is also important imo.
If you like this video you'll love our new podcast! We've extended our year-end chats to a regular, on-going podcast where we chat about all things sports tech including smartwatches, sportswatches, bike computers, bike trainers, trainer apps, and anything sports tech related. 👉 https://www.youtube.com/@thefitfile
Which watch do you recommend as far as fitness tracking? Like most accurate heart rate reading, calories burned, but also has smart watch features?
@desfit
I'm looking to upgrade my Vivoactive 3 music as I'm starting with triatlon. 
I would want a watch that does these things: multisport, navigation (I want to do some trailruns) and music.
Am I right that only Garmin has a few watches that combines them all and if so why aren't there any brands that combine these? And if so why do other brands hate music (Suunto, Coros I'm looking at you!)?
Best video
Mr. Rainmaker is truly a databank. Easygoing. One thing though: what are you guys wearing on your wrists?
It is hard for me to think of an Apple watch as a good running/sports watch.  I view an Apple watch as a smart watch that *can* do sports functions, while a Garmin Fenix 6 (for example) is a running/sports watch that *can* do smart watch functions.  If I want a "smart watch", Apple it is.  If i want a running/sports watch, Garmin, it is.  As cool as an Apple watch is, how well will it do at a Spartan or Tough Mudder?  Even just a trail? The Spartan VA trail, at one point, I was waist deep in water and the Garmin took a few hits.  How well would the Apple hold up?  Each has their own niche.
Where do we get that awesome Christmas t-shirt?
Hard sell for the Swim 2 when Garmin are heavily discounting the 735XT these days.
What's your daily watch that you wear ?
Maybe you could also test the huawei watch gt2 That Would be great
✨ I do swimming, gym and walking. For me, the watch's most important features are sleep control, pedometer, and batterylife. What do you recommend? I have a Huawei p10. ✨
Hey Guys, why don't you test the Amazfit Stratos 3? I think feature wise it's a good deal.
Better crossover since Avengers
Hi guys, which watch would you recommend for some who wants to improve their fitness/strength, mainly road cycles in a low elevation area but rarely runs/swims with a budget of £200?
As for me, Polar vantage V is the best one for running and checking my health
A comment to your note at 10:00: Are you sure the 645 uses it's own special charger? I use the 645 and purchased additional chargers / data cables that are sold on ebay as compatible to "645 35 230 235 630 735XT G10". During the purchase you can't even select a specific one of these models. I received the chargers today and they work just fine on the 645 -- for charging AND data transfer...
Definitely not a fan of OLED displays... hope Garmin will stay away from them. The trans reflective displays are awesome and much more practical. Awesome video with you two pairing up.
Is DC rocking the Vivoactive 4 in this vid? He seemed to not like it in his write up so this is interesting.
@0:06 wtf 😃😃🤣🤣i came back to back to back st it 🤣🤣
What is the best for swimming ? Both pool and open water
Which do you think is the better watch? Galaxy Active 2 or the Garmin Vivoactive 4?
You didn't mention what you guys were actually wearing ? Can you tell us please?👍
Where would you recommend to buy a fitness watch? I've seen great deals at like GPS Nation or Planet Cyclery online. Are places like these trustworthy? Thanks 😊
Love the Vid.... No mention of the Instinct? or did I miss?
i would be nice if you guys told your viewers which watches you are wearing in addition to the overall  presentation
Please what watches are you both wearing??? Thanks
Which watch do you both wear?
I’m missing  the Polar Vantage in this lineup??
Woooooooooohoooww
Really can not understand what is the point of having something if it’s not precise (regarding to what you said about Garmin swim 2 and its wrist heart rate accuracy) why would anyone want their approximate HR. If I wanted that I wouldn’t be buying the watch, I could measure it every now and then on my rest time. If someone has an explanation feel free to let me know. All the best
Do you ever test Amzfit Stratos?
What watchs are you guys both wearing in the video?
Can these watches be used on running or swimming or whatever you do, without any connection with smartphones?
So what are your top 3 all-around watch picks?
Great video.  Really helpful, as always.  I noticed that you criticised Coros pricing, and I think one of the (relatively cheap) Polar models, but why do you never criticise Garmin, who make maybe the most over-priced products in the entire world?  The Forerunner 945 costs $945 in Australia, which is outrageous. And these aren't old-school  luxury watches, the type that last forever and get handed down to the next generation.  They only last a few years, typically.  And while their watches usually do have some impressive features, they are almost always disappointingly way behind the times for certain basic features.  How long did we have to wait for music?  (and it was rubbish when it first arrived - only recently have they added streaming ; the 920XT, which isn't all that long gone couldn't even double as an everyday wrist watch, which was soooo dumb.  And don't get me started on the early versions of Garmin pedals). Come on guys . It's 2020. What's the saying about putting a man on the moon? Someone needs to stick up for all of us who aren't in a position to do so.  If they cut all their prices in half across the board, then maybe they'd be approaching fairness.  Maybe.
Anyhoo, I love that you are doing your best to keep us up to date on all the alternatives.  Love your work.
the first time ever I have heard someone say I thought this watch band was "horrifying" and his counterpart say, "It was indeed horrific".  funny shit
What’s your daily driver?
I use to have a digital watch that would unclip from the band and transform into a robot. Like a gobot. I think that's the last watch I've owned.
What watches are you two wearing in this video?
but where did @dcrainmaker get that shirt?
Huawei gt and gt2 is best price/performace, and probably best looking device.
COROS pace is the must goooooooo 👌👌👌💎💎💎
Do they ever say which are their personal favorite in any video?
You should put the name of the item you are talking about up on the screen.
What kinda watch you both guys are wearnig ?
And which one do you think is the best and why??????
Polar V??
What models of watch you are wearing here?
I got garmin and its perfect watch except sleeping tracking is rubbish 
No where near fitbit they should work more on sleeping mode.
Amazfit Stratos 3, is missing. I did 3 triathlons with it and i am amazed!! Check it out
Where I can get that Xmas T-shirt!? :D
barley even mentioned the 45...….
The Venu is an excellent watch with a beautiful display that Garmin, unfortunately, doesn't take advantage of. The  Garmin ecosystem in and of itself is limited, few watch faces are available to really show off that screen, and even fewer apps. In the end, smart watch makers will catch up with the fitness tracking capabilities of companies like Garmin, and they'll have the ecosystem to keep their audience involved. I mean, Garmin doesn't even have a calculator app that    is usable for the Venu-or a map to use the GPS. You could argue that it's a new direction for Garmin, give it time, but at the price point they're asking, I doubt many will be convinced to make the initial purchase-not when you have other watches with more support that do the same thing. Not to mention they're competing against themselves with the vivoactive 4-they're all priced the same for the holidays $ 300.
Hey Des. Didn’t you guys forget about Wear OS?  They have the Fossil Sport or the Puma Sport, after all. I think it’s telling that not one of the watches on this list is Wear OS. Maybe with the Fitbit acquisition something will happen, but it’s very doubtful. They all have terrible hardware and Google Fit is an absolute mess. Nice review though. Happy holidays!
WE WANT A REVIEW ABOUT RAY'S T-SHIRT!!
What about sunnto watches?
Great video,you two are my references. What about the Huawei watch GT 2????
I'm deciding between 245 and 645 Music. I've heard some rumours that the barometer is kinda bad, and doesnt really matter if you upload your runs to Strava anyway.  
The metal bezel also might give weaker bluetooth signal with earbuds. What you guys think?
What kind of watch is Rainmaker wearing?
Good review, but more watches shots rather than lecturers shots.Also timecodes would be appreciated
And nothing from Amazfit. Sad. Should have had the Stratos 3, and even maybe the Stratos 2 in there. And the Amazfit T-Rex?
What watches were you wearing
Most of these watches look cheap and like prototypes. Some look quite similar to the 25 bucks Polar pulse watch I bought 20 years ago. I believe we are now in the sportswatch era comparable to the mobile phone era when they looked like bricks. The only watch I would love to wear all the time is the MARQ Captain. But I'm not paying 1800 Euros for a watch that I might be able to use for 5 or 6 years. A classic watch for 1800 bucks I can wear for the rest of my life, and then my son can wear it for the rest of his life. As long as we are at this stage, I will pay maximum 300 Euros. It's 50 to 60 Euros pers year for an item you throw away at some point and that's fine. Thanks for the comparison.
No Polar Vantage V?
Polar vantage?
I don’t think I’ve seen a review of a Tactix Charlie from either of you guys. Any chance?
where's the Huawei GT 2?
Which watches you have on your wrists?
The million dollar question is what watch is each one of these guys wearing in the video?
OLED display with 1-week battery is one thing but it must be always on, otherwise, I'll stick to Vivoactive 4, thank you.
It seems as if these high end smartwatches have problems with accurate readings. Can anyone help me find a cheaper/accurate smartwatch that tracks calories burnt when running and biking. Possibly a GPS and heart rate monitor included although not essential.
Instinct?
Which is the winner guys?? The video is too long.
You guys kind of flubbed the fitbit versa 2 review. For other watches, you go into what's good, what's not, etc. All you said about the fitbit was that it added voice functionality and an always on display, while you praised the ionic. The ionic has a GPS and the versa doesn't...that's the difference. You seem pretty inconsistent in your comparisons.
Great video!
I disagree with AMOLED  going to be the future of Garmin displays. I hope Garmin keeps their high-end sport devices away from AMOLED, "Nice to look at" should never be at the cost of function and performance. 
* Outdoor and direct sunlight performance: AMOLED may get close on full brightness but it cannot compete with displays that can work with sunlight not against it.
* Battery impact: A display that is functional and have less impact on battery should always be preferred on an outdoor sport purpose device. 
* Touch interface: Absolutely hate touch interface with a passion; when you are out in below freezing environments,  you can still use buttons with a mitten or thick glove on your hands, try that on a shitty touch screen interface.
Huawei watch gt2?
Who is #1 for you?
Is this a advertisement for Garmin? Why not show the Pilar Vantage V Titan ? Garmin sleep works while sitting in the kitchen drawer over night and gives you REM and deep sleep all while sitting in the kitchen drawer.
The Marc collection. For when you need to drive your Ferrari to the airport, to fly your helicopter out to your yacht.
As an owner of the Garmin 645, I’m super annoyed that it’s been left behind vs the 245 and 945 for running features like pace pro...poor show on garmin’s side!
LOL on sleepy @ fitbit_ same here ... The only thing I hate on Garmin for is that they have no buyback or recycling program yet they release a ridiculous amount of watches with both superfluous and confusing features. There must be a land fill in Africa full of these things.
Wasn’t it Apple that charged $15K for their first Apple Watch? $10K for five with a nice box sounds like a deal.
wow, Fitbits dont qualify as a sports watch anymore!
i got the V3 for couple of years now, i would love to upgrade but got zero budget, so this is just a sport watch porn for me.
No Garmin Instinct here, unfortunately...
How could they ALL suck?
Hi... im new in running is the vivoactive 3 is good for the first timer like me? Thank you sir desfit and Dc.. God Bless Merry christmas...
Garmin Swim 2 still a watch...
Come on guys, so which one was your favorite?
Garmin Vivoactive 3 music
I am still confused. And can’t decide. F6X - amazing look (and also top price), has maps and great battery life but too heavyweight. 
So, wanna maps and light weight? FR945. Oh, but that ugly design :/
Or wanna light weight and great battery life and nice design? There is COROS. Great, but I really that type of tradition and quality over the years with rich data collection in app and website. 
So Polar grit X? Don’t know. You tell me. 
I will lose maps, but for good price I will have nice design and good battery life with acceptable weight. 

Q: But is polar grit X better running watch than FR945?
I don't think people are really seeing the potential of including pulse-ox. You can manipulate your breathing to to change your oxygen saturation thus mimicking altitude training. If this could be broadcast on to your training app so you can see it would help (my) training to no end.
Amazfit watch batre live best!!!
Apple denying the heart rate issues for months before fixing them is exactly the reason i wouldn't buy from them.
I thought that poяn wasn’t allowed on YouTube.
Are Amazfit watches good for fitness?
$10000 watches.........psshh!........must be made out of metamaterials from a recovered UFO
Garmin 6x shappire to rule them all👍
I like the Apple Watch but you need an iPhone
Rather boring. I wish you would focus more on the software than the hardware. The Garmin watches are still light years behind where they should be. Building products with 3 separate teams watch, connect.com, connect app is an absolute disaster. They've never understood the needs of a multisport athlete. They just don't have an eye for any detail, it's very unpolished work (you ever notice the running man animation on the Connect App - it's very juvenile. The back upper arm actually pokes up under the head when it should be hidden). There's a ton of issues with how they track mileage, everything goes through the cloud, but the cloud does no error detection. The biggest thing, is they can't do what they say they can to with the Training Status/V02 because they're so volatile. On false reading (which will happen with OHR) totally throughs everything nuts. For example, my V02 Max has dropped from a 79 to a 69 in the corse of one week on a Fenix 6. Is that physically possible for body to go to crap like that? Also, note the fudging of numbers Garmin has been doing. If you use the chest strap for you running, you'll notice they rolled out an update around January. From that point on you'll see a lot more 50/50 L/R Foot balance scores. Prior to this it wasn't out of the norm to get 49.2/49.9 score (which is impossible). Most importantly, on a running aspect they lack a lot of basic features that would make the user experience much greater. Example the new features the rolled out in the Connect App last week where the lap view has more features with your programmed workout, as well as the main synopsis page giving an interval time an average omitting warm up and cool downs.
Ok. Do not buy Galaxy watch series if you're runner or cyclist.
I've been using 3 type of Galaxy series, and it sucks.
There is no Huawei GT2, a pity.
$200 max is all I am willing to pay to put these hunk of junks on my wrist.
2019 Sportswatches and no comment on anything mechanical?  All of these are disposable plastic crap...
If you look at the entire range of super fancy and expensive watches.... all those watches do not do much more than look fancy and act as expensive jewelry for mostly manly Men.
Garmin is going after that ultra-rich manly Man who does, in fact collect watches. And there are men who fit that profile. Garmin understands that that sort of man doesn’t care is anything make ‘sense’ or not. Those guys will just need to spend their thousands and thousands of dollars on whatever, just because they can.
Hey folks - here’s the link to the full post with all the accuracy testing and piles of galleries of photos of all the watches, enjoy! https://dcra.in/MARQ
Nice suit, but I bet you have your bike shorts on :)
Being a longtime Garmin watch and ecosystem user, I just got myself the Avitator as a replacement for a 945. Ray might not be the targeted client, but I am. Daily driver was either that 945 or my A Lange & Söhne and a few other dress/sport watches, which all looks nice, but doesn't provide any physiological measurements between training sessions. With the Aviator I can now wear something that looks somewhat decent (Rolex GMT clone) with a suit *and* have 24/7 data, and the price is something I can absorb anyway.
Love this channel and the time it takes to do the extensive online reviews must be immense. Great stuff looking forward to seeing more stuff from you, subbed.
At those prices, I guess their new slogan is 
"Fleecing the Marq"
Love the suit and tie Ray. And, congrats on the subscriber milestone.
Your reviews are impressive. Very very well done! I'm part of the family now. Keep it up!
heart in mouth every time that stand wobbles.
Been rocking the MARQ adventurer for over 2 months now. Its my favorite watch in general now. I liked my vivoactive, but this thing has more battery, a better sapphire screen, and tons of more features. Yeah it cost a lot more, but it has a lot of premium physical features, like the leather band, sapphire glass... that stuff costs money even in a traditional watch.
Loving the suit !! Looking good Ray.
I’m glad you talked about price. No one else is talking about price and that makes you stand out of all the other Garmin review videos. I think it’s important to talk about how fast this tech will go obsolete. The prices are incredibly high and the watches will become “previous models” within the next 365 days. They’re coming out with new watches every year. We don’t have 2,000 to drop every year or the other. Garmin needs to recycle their older pieces and give a good rebate on their new watches.
Thanks for the quick upload and great takes.
Really like the Expedition but couldn’t justify the price. I’m considering the 5x+ that comes with the official leather strap in the box. Do you have any pictures of that one or a review. It’s difficult to quite see the colours on the Garmin site. Thanks
Love or hate the watches, the review was great. Nobody needs a watch like this, like I don’t need my Tesla. Apple, and now Garmin has determined there is a significant market for things people don’t need. If you need a watch like this, you probably need way more expensive things. Like a plane, or a yacht. I think “Find-my-yacht/plane” is now in the App Store. It’s a free App.
Thanks for all the reviews and tests! You are the best in this! :)
Hi do you know if the golf functions are the same on all devices. I love the look of the aviator gen2 but don’t want to loose function on the golf gen 2
Fantast review, would have liked to watched your longer version.
I'm looking to purchase the Marq Athlete, question, should I or just purchase the Fenix 5 plus?
These are tools Guy. I categorically wanted a higher end, lux styled watch to do my running. Glad these came out. It is to be used and enjoyed.
Upvoted just for the Ray’s the Steaks reference
Great review, keep up the good work 👍
Forerunner 935 (tri) for daily wear and sports.. Omega for elegant occasions.. can't beat that combo :)
Hard to beat a bit of honesty 😉
hey, does the price gives more advantage on battery life.
Ray, Garmin just released the Commander edition for the MARQ series. An update to this channel? :)
Loving the new mic 😉
How many of the widget changes will make it onto the current Fenix and forerunner 935 series?
Nice suit Ray.............looking sharp!!!
That is a beautiful watch!
Thx for the review! I'm a Fen5x+ user... I think they miss the mark on this series. Athletes want features and functionality. But I understand there is a market for this niche group and I would love to see the sales next year.
Looking sharp Boss 👍
Is this also the new OP that we will see on the fenix watches?
Thanks - I trust your reviews on Garmin from past experience and it does not bode well if the GPs chip is not that great on such an expensive watch - I like the look of it though
such an insane price!
I love my Fenix 6X Sapphire, but I drool over these Marq series watches. If I had the coin, I would buy one even though the tech would be outdated in a few years.
Love your hard work man. Any feelings of the Opitcal Heart Rate changes? Is it better than the laggy-ish 5 series? My Apple watch series 4 put the Garmin I had to shame with HR accuracy, but I can't use the Apple watch for long. The battery doesn't make it with the training I do. I'm hoping they will trickle the new HR monitor design down into cheaper watches. If it's better, I'll wait. If it's not, no point in waiting.
I enjoy your videos.  I have owned a Garmin products since 201.  Your point about the lifetime of these watches is a great one.  The batteries don’t last more than 2 years and replacing them is not worth the cost.  You may as well get a new one.  However, I have found Polar to have a better battery.  It has certainly lasted longer.
Proper sales man
The Marq seems to be a 5plus with pulse ox added. Why do you think the battery life in smart watch mode is 12 days while the 6Pro is 14 days? Do they both have the Sony GPS?
I've got several garmin devices now - my daily wear is a VA4.  I use it to track general workouts, running, biking, but I also use its golf features pretty extensively.  They just released the MARQ golfer which has some really compelling features without taking away the activity stuff I want (like the Approach series does) - but at $1800, that is a pill I'm not willing to swallow.  I would, however, give it a second look if the screen were improved over the VA4, which, from reading the comments and watching the video, does not seem to be the case.  I definitely do not want amoled, but at the very least, resolution needs to be improved on their screens to ask this much money.
Goodluck at your highschool prom with that suit ray!!! :)
I even don't dare to upgrade from my well functioning Fenix 3 because of all the issues with the newer devices reported in forums, although I would like to have maps. Priority for me as probably for many others is GPS-accuracy, so I agree that real sports guys are not the target group!
How's the screen resolution?  I had the Chronos and ended up returning it after a month because it was so difficult to read.
Expeditions mode would be relevant if it was posibel to adjust the GPS record and turn the on and of. And have abc as well.
Two weeks would be sufficient for most with low battery use, gps and ABC.
Can they each do the functions of each other? Example, I like the look of the aviator but need the driver and expedition functions. I personally use a 5x plus for motorcycle touring adventures(maps, with bluetooth directions), fitness and I do own a race car.. If they are only for each watches name(aviator cant do drivers functions) then which one fits me?
This is more of an exercise in branding and positioning than it is a near-term drive for profit. It will be interesting to see how Marq evolves and if it provides more pricing headroom for the lower-end lines. By the way, how was the tactile feel of the buttons?
Great video! Thank you for it! 

Do you think the Garmin Fenix 6 will come out in 2019? 

Thank you!
Hey DC why would it be obsolete? If it is charged it will run right? It's just not up to date with the newest software.....or do you think otherwise?
i felt so guilty about buying a Fenix 5 Plus for 1000 CAD. Even the entry level one in here will cost 2000 CAD. So the athletic version will cost 1000 more for design, UI changes and some firstbeat analytics.
Is the black hybrid titanium (Driver edition) wirstband compatible with a normal fenix?
is this like a fenix 5x+ but in a fancy suit?
Any word on how much of these features they're going to backport to the Fenix 5/5+ series?
Good news of this collection is that some of this magic will trickle down to the fenix at some point in time. The Athlete is not that much more expensive in some regions than the sapphire Fenix's after release date. Question is who will want to beat up their +1.5K wristwatches without a single worry. Interesting evolution nonetheless Thanks for the detailed overview as always
Hi Ray
Thanks for the reviews. I went on Garmin website and seen that they have a SCUBA Diving smart watch. I’m a scuba diver and use a dive computer. Is there anyway you can do a review on the SCUBA DIVING ONE??? 
Thanks
Will we see some of that trickle down to the 935?
Imagine doing a triathlon/cycling while wearing one, then your tire snags a rock or a stick, you fall off and smash your $2500 watch. No thank you! My Garmin 735xt is all I need!
Will be interested to see how the watch does in open water swim.
Which is best the marq commander or the tactix 7 pro??
what type of display is used? how many colors?
Nice video! Only thing I don’t like is the overhead camera feels like it faces the wrong way.. I don’t know why but my brain expects it to be overhead and from your side of the table. Overall though great content, thanks!!
I'd buy an American made Music Man Stingray which will work perfectly for decades to come and hold value really well. A Forerunner 235 suits me just fine ;-)
Thank you
"Those watches will become obsolete in few years" - But... My fathers Ambit 3 that I use for GPS with HR strap is still perfectly fine... :D Nothing obsolete in what it is.
Any chance they will launch a golf version?
400 for a smart Watch is the most you should pay not a million dollars. 2500 HAHAHAHAH
Nice production touch with the suit. 

I see the point about tech moving on, but a camera and a phone are totally different when it comes to consumers buying. 

But how I am looking at it, why buy these when you can get more or less the same functionality with a Fenix 5x Plus for a lot less. (For the athlete edition anyway)

You only have to look an example of this with the iPhone XR and XS. The XR offers more or less the same functionality at a reduced price and it’s a top seller for Apple. (According to the analysts)

As a consumer, I buy lots of tech. Some of it is a need and some is a want. I also have a nice collection of high end watches. But i am not tempted to even consider this watch, even though I do own the DLC Fenix 5x Plus.

My final point, Apple tried this with both the edition gold range and recently the ceramic edition. Despite all of Apples pulp and marketing, the company has given up again on the luxury line
Hi Ray, I have seen the Marq Aviator RRP £1799 for £1079. I was going for a fenix 7 but in your opinion,  at this discounted price is it worth going for the aviator even if I won't use the aviation features?
How's this compare to the Fenix 6 line up at this point?
not wanting to be nit-picking, but the moving map in the background at 12:15 is moving the wrong way.. Earth spins the other direction!
If Earth spun like this, then sun-rise would be in the west and sunset would be in the east..
I'm new to buying these smartwatches. I'm a pool and open water swimmer, would it be wise for me to buy (considering if outdated soon) the Garmin 735xt in 2019 or go with recent Garmin 5? Thanks
surprising lack of footage of the watches.
Some mixed emotions here. I kind of like the way Garmin is going here, but they need to upgrade the display. I would like to se a higher resolution and maybe som real hands, kind of like the Vivomove HR. That would make it more classy.
The delta 2 PX is about $1000 , the Aviator Marq is almost double , what's the difference between the 2 and how does Garmin justify the price increase ?
Is there any way to remove GOLF from a Garmin Descent MK1?
What based on the 5 when there is a 6 doesn’t make much sense???
Yeah, i love Garmin watches better than any other sport watch out there.  And don't even mind spending $1,500 on it.  But one of the important things for me is weight.  Lighter is better.  I don't want the watch weighing me down.  The MARQ athlete misses the mark on weight.  Put all that tech in the new Forerunner 936, and you got yourself another best seller Garmin.
希望Garmin MARQ能增加,太陽能,觸控面板,led照明功能,謝謝
I will have a hard time buying another Garmin GPS watch, I am on my 3rd Fenix three Sapphire due to various issues with them just flat not doing what Garmin says they are supposed to. Purchased a Fenix 5 for my Wife Christmas before last and it also has some issues with Altimeter/Barometer. Just hard to keep giving them money for things that don't work as advertised.
0:34 something happened witht the sound
New charging port?
Nice look in suit. Maybe unbutton the jacket sitting down?
Great walkthrough as always.
Rainmaker - love your stuff, especially the website which has been my goto place for years. About this watch series...  just my opinion, but this is rubbish. The price does not even come close to justifying what utility you actually get out of the watch. I am a long-time Garmin user, starting with the 310xt (ugly by today's standards ;-)), then the 910xt, I then moved on to the original Fenix, then the Fenix 3. I stopped there because I could not see the purchase of the Fenix 5 as being justified... This now is simply outrageousness :-)
The Athlete and the Adventurer edition are obsolete already. The fenix 6 plus range has the same software & functionality. The only real difference is the build quality, but not worh the price difference imho.
Pissed. Still tempted hald price price
why should i get this watch?
My god you might as well have published a Harry Potter novel with how long that post looked.
Video starts at 3:16
If the GPS in this watch turns out to have GPS issues it’s a No Go no matter what the price is.
Perfect analysis of its limited life
True. I rather buy a Tag Heuer.🤣
No mention anywhere about the water resistance rating . That's  a very important thing to overlook.  Is is 1 atm? 10? 100? Garmin doesnt show it on their website and your everything you will ever need to know post also contains zero info.
When Apple becomes the reasonable, better featured, affordable option.
I wore Breitlings for about ten years before I finally switched to Fenix.  While I appreciate Garmin trying to dress up sports watches--which are all rather bland and industrial--I don't see myself getting one of these.  No amount of bling (even tastefully done) on a sports watch will give it the exclusivity and artistic relevance of high-end mechanical diving or racing watches.

I feel like these MARQs are aimed at this awkward middle ground.   In the case of practicality, my Fenix 5 Plus does everything these MARQ watches do.  If someone wants to dress up or show off, a Rolex, Omega, or Breitling will always be more classy and expensive than a Garmin.
$ 2k and more Smartwatch and the display resolution is just 240×240? That's a sad joke! It remember me on the first Nintendo Game Boy...
Hm. I'd rather like to see Garmin fix their Fenix 5+ firmware instead releasing a similar set of watches for 3-5 times the price of a 5+. But ya, I don't understand business obviously.
So I can understand your stand point on thinking these will not compete with tech in the next 6 years but you're wrong on them being done and dusted at that point. The dentures they offer don't go bad... honestly with what they offer, there isn't anything else needed from a GPS watch
Kinda disagree with the "it will be obsolete in a few years or 2-4 years" thinking. More like 5-10 years imo (if you are OK with not having some of the latest tech & features). But yeah ultimate it is a lot of money and still not going to last very long.
their website I useless .. is their any website .. that I can compare specs side by side
Would love to see real hand, not the horrible dead screens like fitbit, apple, etc.

I love to always see the onscreen display, but Garmin have a good comprise at the moment.

Want high res displays, expect poor battery life and no always on screen.

The withings sport hr has real hands and battery lasts about 4 weeks on a single charge, but screen is tiny
You really think the tech will be obsolete in a few years? Garmin hasn't added fundamental new features/sensors in a long time.
Worth it this watch -60% off in 2023???
These new high end crappers are just that, all style & no substance. Even the GPS is wonky by all accounts.
Я ждал обзор морских...
It seems like ultimate everyday watch - you can use them for training and they don't seem like a sport watch st least on the first sight and ... wait ... I'm using Forerunner 620 as the only watch, they are in the quite bright blue colour and it's totaly alright. And they are probably $2,450 cheaper than this creature 🙂.
Still not solar powered - I just went for a Casio Rangeman - beautiful display, basic nav but main reason - solar powered GPS position.  Garmin are still tied to a flawed display - it may be colour but there's no dynamic range/contrast.  I wonder how long they will continue to milk the cow...
So I think, If Garmin want to build a extravagant watch, not enough to change a case from plastic to titanium. Need a better Oled display, Wireless charging, min. 64 Gb memory. This is a simple price tag change. Nothing more.
for that price i would expect the screen quality to be better from the apple watch. right now it looks like a potato screen similar to the rest of the garmin watches with a resolution of a 3x3px
I had the finex 5. I did not like the washed screen and the very inaccurate heart rate in what was supposed to be a watch for sports. I hope those pricy versions are better.
Hmm! I think Garmin missed the mark with this selection 🤔
tag Heuer watch 4 me
I’d rather see a Garmin that is as good as a Suunto......never happened yet.
Trouble is garmin are shooting themselves in the foot by making ever increasing expensive watches. That are costing more. They will end up pricing themselves out of the market.

The apple watch is hopeless unless you have an iPhone, so if you have to buy an iPhone also, makes apple also an expensive option.

But I do feel the way garmins prices are going, will price themselves out of the market.
Do you know what I can buy with that amount of money? An Apple Watch 4 that works fine; and then professional fitness testing and advice at my local university that's far more useful.
Idk why anyone would spend $2500 on a smart watch. Like u said, they will be obsolete in few years. It confuses me when people buy this kind of stuff...
Any body hear “Kermit the frog” good reviews,
hehe, typical Garmin...why even bother...
DO buy 99% of new things to try out, but this one looks Ok..but far from worth it for the price they take.
My Galaxy Watch Active is better! 😁👅
First
Made in China?
Too much $$$$$.  It's almost like buying a Rolex.
Battery life is still rubbish whether you pay $1,400 or $200.
Ray man, time for a new mic. Or a new audio set up.
In my opinion the Fenix 5 series are over priced... these are ridiculous! I certainly wont be getting one!
"I tried the shower trick??" Don't you own an iron?
Nice review - wish I could afford one :)
For the discerning sportsperson, who has no concept of value for money....
Sorry, but you are wearing your suit wrong😅
I'll wait for the Chinese knock-offs of these.
Yuk. Yuk Yuk. What are Garmin doing with the look of their watches. Massive detour for this company I feel. The athlete model is far too dressy. Too much bling! 
Great review Ray but lose the suit 🥴 You’re more than fine reviewing in sports attire.
I,d rather buy a Hamilton or Tissot Automatic watch time piece and it,s for life, I can leave it to my children etc..Don,t waste so much  money in smartwatches, I have the fitbit versa and I like it but never spend more than 200 € on smartwatches, not worth it
way to much talking at the start. show the watches while you talk at  least Jesus!!!!
Too much camera on your face it's annoying. Maybe next time it'll better if we have more camera time on the review items instead?
Watches are like phones now. A piece of money sucking device.
And I thought I spent too much on my $1000 Garmin.  The trouble with smart watches is they depreciate and become obsolete in a few years.
Condescending tip of the day...

That looks like a two button suit. Regardless of how many buttons your suit has, the bottom button should always remain undone. It was placed there for visual balance, not function.

If you're wearing a double breasted suit, it's okay to keep the "outside" lower button done up in a way that wearing double breasted jackets isn't.

If you actually own a double breasted jacket, keep it for the extremely unlikely event that they come back into fashion. It will save you  spending good money chasing a fashion that your body shape almost certainly will no longer be suited for the three-and-a-half-minutes that double breasted are actually trendy. .

😉

Love your videos mate!
Unacceptable blueish display never a garmin watch again
1500 $ and still that crappy LCD screen! I‘m not moving from my Forerunner 935 until they make a watch with a dcent display.
I don’t like his early opinion! Very poor mindset
if I didn't know they cost $2500 I would assume it's some cheap watch from Walmart for $10. they look like sh*t. even Garmin Instinct looks more expensive than those...
You are not understandable , talk slower!
Utter waste of money.
Why are you taking about you suit??? Stick with the subject next time. I stopped the video at 1:40 minutes, boring.
Garmin is a joke
good review DC as normal.  Man are they all your beers???? does it have a beer alert???
Gotta say, I like the bike alarm feature. What a good idea.
Just purchased a 520 plus, thank god it's still in the box, cuz it's going back to the store and i'm waiting for this 530 to come out.
I've been waiting for this device for ages! My Edge 500 is already getting super old and after some four years with that device the rubber on the outside of the device is being nearly destroyed. Yesterday I saw GP Lama's video about Wahoo Elemnt Bolt update and nearly bought that thing. Thanfully I waited one more day!
Wahoo have a challenge ahead. 
I was looking at upgrading my mini. 👍🏻
Dude!!  This is the Edge I've been waiting for.  I've been waiting and looking for a bike computer that I could use seamlessly between road and MTB (I loooooove the mountain bike features that you highlighted :) ).  Thanks for the review! Sweet job as always.
Just sold my 1 month old 520+ and waiting for this one to become available. Thanks for your reviews!
This was very helpful.  I need a device primarily for navigation.  I purchased the 530 over the Wahoo Roam.

The Climb, locate, Alarm, and Heartrate range notification features were a big plus.
This channel is VERY underrated.
Great review DC...I am using a Edge 130 Plus and it's fantastic! However after seeing your review want to upgrade for a Edge 530. I love the simplicity of non touch screen 🙂
Great review, thx a lot! Can't wait to get my hands on it!
I just got a 530 edge so I am setting mine up thanks for making this video
Thanks Ray! May need to pick this one up. Cant wait to see what my grit and flow looks like overlaid on a map. Trailforks in there is huge too. Well done as always my friend! 
😃👍
I’m all in. Great review!
The maps and climb features are excellent. Superb for something like a GF if you don't know the route.
would you recommend this over the wahoo roam from either a mapping or
battery standpoint ?  also pulling routes from ridewithgps is there any difference ?
Thanks for the great review! What I can't quite figure out anywhere is if it's possible to navigate to a random point on the map? So in other words, can you pick a random spot on the map and navigate there, or when on a pre loaded route, decide to go somewhere else?

Many thanks in advance!
Great review buddy. Right on the spot. Keep on
Your lunch behind  looks nice ! Great vid.
Just bought one and liked and subscribed.  Thanks for the great video.
Curious what you think of visibility in the sun (glossy/shiny screen cover) vs the Wahoo Roam?   Looking for whatever is the easiest to see in mapping mode.
I just got the small Garmin Edge 130, and damn am I impressed!
After reading you deep review of this device (Great Job by the way) I decided to subscribe to your Channel.
Keep it up, it was a very fresh source of information for a purchase option.
Great review, decision made. Now I know which model I want between the 530 and 830. Cheers.
Thank you for your review!
Excellent review, really insightful - do you know if Flow, Grit and Jumps are coming to a Garmin watch anytime soon?
After posting this video, you'll need to hide a 530 on top of the beer boxes w. the alarm activated , because your friends will surely be coming by to steal a few beers. Thank you for the review. Really clear and informative.
Some nice features there. I always have concerns with Garmin about software reliability and user interface awkwardness, but otherwise this looks like a very competitive device.
Great Review!
Anyone know if Garmin is going to release an update for this any time soon? Should I wait? or pull the trigger in 2021.
Superb. Ordered. Thanks man.
nice collection of beer you have there :) And you just made me REALLY want this unit and ditch my Wahoo elemnt bolt!
After this review I decided to finally update from my ancient Edge 705.   It was an incredible device over the last 11 years but it was time for an update and this has been great so far
Thanks.  Very useful and informative.
Without the power meter, do we still have the performance stats such as training load, training effect, vo2max and lactate threshold?
I think a lot of people won’t realize how ground breaking this 530 is for mountain bikers. Thankfully, your written review does and it’s spot on. My favorite part was, “Up till now, the most attention that Garmin has placed on mountain biking has simply been to add a generic ‘Mountain Bike’ profile, and offer you the ability to purchase a colored rubber condom for your Edge device, presumably to try and protect it when you smashed your bike into a rock face. Feature-wise though, there’s been nothing.”
great review, I'm looking at upgrading from a 520 - really helpful thanks..for bike riding I find that I can't get a touch screen (like on the 830) to work properly cos my hands get too sweaty, so buttons like on the 530 is much better.
Great review!  Does the Garmin display zone power highlights while riding?
can you compare the 530 to wahoo element?
I got a refurbished (by Garmin) unit for $170.  Can't beat that.
Very informative!
So, I definitely had to hit the like button for another great video as well as what appears to be a great new device! I like the format of bing bing bing, what you need to know and then leave the details for the written review. And even the hand off to Des for the MB detail. This looks like an eventual replacement for my 820. Do you know if it will work with the remote?
Great review! I got a question with my Garmin Edge 530, I have both 945 and 530, and use HRM-TRI when I am cycling, but training performance on 530 doesn't work. I can see all my date, heart rate, HR zones, however I got no feedback like performance, recovery time. It does show my training info from my 945, but they just cannot combine together.
Alarms.. my See Sense Icon Plus front and rear bike lights (400/250 lumens) have alerts via bluetooth to iOS app. Been using this function along w my ziplok zlok zip ties for as you say, coffee shops etc.
Hi DC and thanks for your great review! From it I gather trailforks data are already in the unit, and you don't need to download them. But what about trail updates? If a trail gets added to trailforks, is there a way to update trailforks data and download it?
How did you get the standard mount on the canyon stem? I snapped my o ring and got discouraged
Thanks a lot for the video!! Great one!! Can I have your advice? I already have a forerunner 245. Should I get the edge 530. Do you recommend to get it? I use my watch to do some other type of sports such as swimming. 

So... is it worth to buy it... or with the FR245 is enough for a amateur biker?
Do you know what version of Bluetooth this 530 and the new 830 has? Do you know if it's 5.0? I ask primarily because of the increased battery performance and extended range.
great review. Now in 2022 i'm torn between this and the wahoo bolt v2. Is this still worth it? Thoughts?
recently got the bolt. used a 510 and an 800 and i'm convinced the bolt is better for my purposes. i won't be changing anytime soon but hopefully this will spur a response from wahoo.
Big power numbers Ray :)
After 4 years still seems to be the best deal. I am buying one today to replace the 7 years old 520 which still works fine but can't cope with navigation on a centenary.
wow nice review DCR! Wish my review videos were this good😔
Looks awesome.  I just bought a 520 plus that I am happy with.   Is this one using USB-C ?
I did the mallorca 312.   . how did you like the climbs there?  this is a tough ride .
Really helpful review! As a fellow roadbiker in the netherlands, I'm torn between this and the Wahoo BOLT v2. What do you personally use here?
Thanks! Just subscribed to your channel
I wrap my 1030's wrist strap over the handlebars to keep it on the bike if disaster strikes. You know what would be great? A review of screen protectors and after-market cases for fitness computers if you haven't done one already. Thanks for the vids!
Update 5.0. Fixed many minor issues. Climb pro now has 3 selectable hill ranges. 

Select all you see any hill fitting Garmins definition of a climb/Hill
Medium to large
Only large

Others complained about turn by turn direction - mainly the turn indicator arrow on the upper left corner of screen freezing at say .1 mile.  I’ve never had that issue but can confirm the distance before a indicated turn shows to 20 ft.
Is it still so cumbersome to create the training pages or was something changed?
How many Connect IQ fields can be used (Edge 520 4 pieces)?
POI on 530?
great video !
How did you stretch the Garmin standard mount rings far enough to reach around your canyon stem?? I snapped one and gave up and put it on my handlebars
Quick one! What’s the best way to get courses onto saved courses so climbpro can be availed of
Hi @DC Rainmaker! Does the 530 have the round -trio Courses?
everybody should have one of these!
So would this be good for my World Tour by Bike next year? Or is the 520plus better?
K, that's it!  The 530 over the Bolt! Noice review my friend!
If someone places great importance on the baked in trail forks on the 530, does the new wahoo bolt match, beat, or lose to the 530?
Edge 810 owner here purchased Edge 530 as an upgrade. My input here: 1. It is a pain to set up using buttons. Had hand cramps multiple times trying arrange all screens I had in my 810. 2. There is lost satellite warning beep which you can’t turn off on 530 and pops up many times when you do anything on the unit when away from the windows and possible satellite signal reception. Contrary on 810 unit you have warning with option continue searching or not so you can  turn it off. 3. On Edge 810 you can customized road profile screen changing distance and elevation parameters what is not possible on Edge 530 as you cannot get highlight over the numbers like on 810 and change values... this might be a deal breaker for me to either go to 830 or quit and stay with my 810. Of course processor is very fast and it boots almost immediately but once my 810 is on I have comparable reaction time using functions. Also much better screen resolution on 530.
Wanted to add a new problem which occurred last weekend. Went to a big ride 177km(110miles) and over 2000m elevation gain and upon completion Garmin 530 calculated my new FTP... to be 817 and displayed my new best 20min to be 860 with over 10W/kg. Total joke as I am in the range of 250-260 FTP. I guess new unit is not bugs free.
Update on August 7: I have returned 530 and got 830. After 800km with 830 unit I can confirm that 830 is on top of my choices for Garmin cycling computers followed by 810 then 530. Sorry but 530 is not even close to touch screen units. 530 screen menus are terrible and not even close to 830 screens. 
Conclusion - 530 and 830 despite looking alike are totally different units and around $100 more is money well spend getting into 830.
Great review thanks. I just bought the Edge 530 it’s my first cycling computer. I do both road and MTB cycling, however I took it out today to try and the distance was well off. I did about 16km  on a UK cycle route but it said I only did 4km so you can imagine I was very disappointed. From what I can see the GPS was set to GPS+Glonass and I have read that just using GPS  might help, any ideas please……..
Need your help please DC !!! Seams what with new mapping added my Fenix 5 and also my Edge 530
I’ve lost car routing it acts as direct routing.  Have I read of a problem here.   It’s much needed as had enough road riding off road unpaved as OCM maps list as paved.   I need car routing again like yesterday.  Thanks reply
Is the "Find My Edge" feature also available through the web portal, or only through the mobile app?
Great sharing
So glad I didn’t get the Bolt last week.  I would have been pissed!
Wanted a Garmin device for the navigation, but I was concerned about the new upgraded model being announced. 
I didn't know if it will be this year, but I was cautious and then Iread the announcement on your site. 
I used the chance to get the 10% discount in Europe at the advertised shop - couldn't find cheaper price anywhere. 
Unluckily they didn't provide me the new customer 20% discount as it is available in the US, but at least I didn't purchase the yesterdays version.
The new one was shipped today and the due date is 4th of June - I placed the order on 6th of May.
how Trailforks maps/trails updating looks like? is it easy? automated process maybe ? any test including Trailforks functionality ?

what's the point of 'baking-in trails' into device?  trails change every day, emerge new ones, old are closed (permanently or temporarily).  can i update TF trails on weekly basis ? do i really need  trails from around the world when 99% of them i'll never ride ?
So can you download strava routes to the Edge 530 w no issues like Wahoo? Seems like everything else is better on Garmin so was curious about the strava route or route sharing capability. Thank you. Great channel. Living the dream in Amsterdam dc!
dc you are king
do the grit and flow measurements only appear if I'm following a route?
Where do I buy these bartapes of yours? They’re great!
Great video!  Any idea if some of these new features will make their way to other Garmin devices?  I have a 520+ and think some of the features would be cool to have
Is there any chance the ClimbPro feature will... trickle up to the 1030? That would be awesome
@DC Rainmaker 
Ray, second time i need some support for this edge. Question: is there a reason why i find strava segments' unselected in garmin connect's segments menu? When this happens i find 'garmin segments' selected so i change the setting to 'strava'...but it does not last... i have 2 devices (forerunnner 920 & edge 530). This happens wth android app and web app...
When can i buy this? In the netherlands?
Can Kamoot make up the difference between 530 and 830 routing differences? ... on the fly, finding somewhere?
When will this thing be for sale???
How can I add the ride checklist to the garmin screen? Always forgetting something
Ray, where did you get that t-shirt?  I want one!
Hello, I have a problem in workout mode. On the top of the screen I can't see the next step power and time. Only the current step note..you know why?
How does this compare to the 820? I've seen a few deals that price the 820 around $240
Good evening, I wanted to know if you have any heart rate clock compatible with Garmim 520 plus, or is it just the same heart strap?
Is speed displayed even if a cadence sensor is not fitted on the bike?
Hi, do you know if it is possible to add custom cues to a route planned in Garmin connect? I've tried to add cues to new routes but I can't seem to find a way.
@DC Rainmaker, I know this is an old video but I am looking for my first cycling computer and I went straight to the Garmin 530 which I can get for £230 (on sale) in the UK but then I found the Garmin 1030 (not the plus) on sale for only £299 and I am now stuck which to pick. I want to explore more with maps than chase KOM's so navigation and re-routing (I am new to this area) is more important to me. Any help would be amazing based on what is out there for sub £300. Loved the videos BTW :-)
How does it do off grid trails that we make ourselves? I’m an enduro mx rider so it’s all bush riding
Hi, do the new Garmin Edge 530/830 support strava live segments too?
DC, I need help. Is there a best settings for doing FTP, w/o using the EDGE method on the head unit.  Finally, when I plug into my computer, it only charges the unit, but does not download any info to the Garmin website. IN fact, my computer does not see it at all to even select it on the browse.
How can you do à route backworths ? (with 945 there is à easy sélection)
Just got my 530 and pretty impressed.  New trail areas are a breeze, no more riding lame courses!  Question about external display though.  Can you get you fenix 5X to just show your HR from the Edge.  I like the color zone coding on the watch's HR display, but want to be using all the functions of the Edge.  Garmin describes how to do this in reverse, for say a triathlete.  I'm think like this weeks race is 122km at 4000m in extremely hot conditions...  I want my watch just to show HR and zone color so I don't blow up.
Hmmm... I’ll see how long my 510 lasts before I upgrade. Was thing about the Element bolt now I want to see what Wahoo responds with Garmins upgrades.
When are these going to be available??
Thanks for the video! re Navigation, on a ride if I want to go a different route (say take a shortcut) to the one I've set and deliberately miss out a waypoint will the re-routing always try to force me back to that waypoint or does it realise I've 'passed' that part of the course and continue on to the next waypoint? (hope that makes sense!)
Thanks!
Thank you
Which one is better? Edge explorer or edge 530?
Just ordered one over the bolt and roam which is more expensive. I'm looking forward to mapping features on board and need to see if I can load programs from zwift there
Thanx! Can I import Google maps locations from my phone to the edge 530? So I can navigate to that point? If so, how?
Hi , Just received my 350, map update needed, doesn't work tho, system asks for 17GB space 350 has only 15GB in total, any tips ?  Tanks in advance.
just a new to bike computer. does the mapping rely on your phones data. or it has its own connection that does the route. for some reason i dont bring my phone during trail, would it still be working even if i dont have my phone with me ?
Find a route for a specific workout... Sounds interesting and helpful... but does it really work? Any thoughts on that?

Thx for this review 👍
does it come with heart sensor w/strap & cadence sensor. thanks in advance. :-)
Had to return my first 530. The return to previous screen button would not work.  My second 530 works fine.
9:54 2702w... seems there is power data spike. Garmin is still buggy on power data collection ?
Hi, thanks for the report. A query... can I use it with Wahoo Kickr Smart Trainer,?. My Element's GPS has stop working , I tried to recover it in many different ways but it looks like it is no repairable and I am thinking of buying a new bike computer.. Could you please let me know if that Garmin has same feature to work indoor and creates workout with the Kickr one.  Thanks a lot
Hey I always like your reviews thank you. First off I tried the Wahoo Elemnt Bolt v2 on one ride and despised it. It had all the features I wanted like USBC etc but returned it I felt similarly to your review of it… Thus I wanted to switch to the Edge 530 but don’t want to pay $300 for something from Garmin that is going on 3 years old including the fact it still had Micro USB which was ancient even three years ago. Thus I am waiting for the update to this model. Guessing it will be 540? Will you be doing a review of it when it comes out? Any insight or guesses when it would come out? Would love to know right when it’s released so hopefully I will be pinged when you post a review on it. Hopefully Garmin connects with the 21st century and includes USBC.
Hi man, is there some cooperation with a watch? for example with Garmin Fenix? I mean calculating the training load if you do any other sports (running)?
When Garmin gonna present 540 version ?
Real nice video, would you recommend the 820 over over the 530? Since the new 830 came out you can finde the 820 for 240€.
so finally I can use a garmin head unit with my polar power meter pedals!?
My 510 still works perfect, battery life still more than 12 hours, don't have any reason to change it so far
Thanks for the good review! I'm looking for a device good for long rides (24 hours and more, I'm planning some ultracycling races): reliable, resistant, with the possibility of installing and reading gpx files and able to be recharged during the ride. I was thinking about the 520plus, but now, with the new 530 I have another option. Do you think 530 could be good for me? (sorry for my bad English, I'm Italian...)
Hi DC ive a budget of 200/300 euros and i am thinking of a new garmin edge 530 i currently have the  130 , and would like something with a larger screen in your opinion what would you recommend ? thanks in Advance
Is there an optional key locking mount too? So even if they try to take your bike, they can't take the head unit as a consolation prize?
So I don't MTB per say but I do gravel ride more and more and many of our Gravel rides wind up on MTB trails.  So I assume the Trailforks features would be good on those trails...but what about the gravel roads linking them?  


Great review as always and I now need to buy 2 of these and sell my 520 and my partners 130.  LOL
We're a Gravity Racing Team looking to record data for our races. Ol' Man River Racing.  Our upcoming race is only 30 Sec or Less. Wondering if the Garmin products have adjustable Activity Timer/Stop Watch readout that will show Sec.00?  Manuals all look like Hrs: Min: Sec     Not fine enough I'm afraid?
Not sure if i will upgrade from my Edge 800, but this 530 seems like a better deal than edge 830, and I really prefer real buttons.
Still sitting on the fence with the 530. Comments on the buttons sticking. Some seem to not have that problem.
I've had my 530 for about a week now, works flawlessly EXCEPT for text message replies. I pair with an iPhone 10 and I'll get messages but the Reply feature is grayed out not allow to reply with any canned messages.  Any advice to get reply feature to function would be much appreciated!
Question: I currently live in South Korea with a large biking community. I am about to ride the east coast next month. Are Korea maps available? I looked on the Garmin site & for ASIA it only had the Himalayas & Russia. Is there a way get actual Korea maps? Thanks for the review & your time.
Great review. Thank you.

Question: what are those circular things underneath the bar/electrical tape at 2:47 ?
Competition always makes tech better! Keep it coming.
@ etienne beney My husband found a cradle and hardwired the Garmin to my dash. Unfortunately it bricked two days ago so I'm back to using my i yr old TomTom.
How does this size up against the Bolt? A few reviews of the Garmin 520 (Plus) against the Wahoo Bolt had the them about the same with one or two having given the bolt a slight "edge". Does this give the Garmin 5 series the go ahead win? Kinda sounds like it. One of the biggest things was battery life. Mmmm
I'm in the market for my first gps computer. I'll wait till Wahoo updates their bolt/elemnt line (2 yrs old now with no price decrease) before deciding between a Garmin or Wahoo
love the video.  Im looking to buy my first bike. Is there a bike that is good for dirt as well as pavement that you can recommend that isn't real expensive ?
Hi Ray,
Can Edge 530 pair with ancient Polar H7 heart rate strap?
Do you have a special mount at 8:13 that locks in a Garmin ? Lost my last Garmin, it jumped out, and I'm looking for something like a lanyard/lock
Help!! Garmin 530 or Wahoo Elemnt bolt v2?
Hi, is it possible to create routes from the app on the cellphone and send it to the device 530 on the go? 
With the 830 I see that you can now create routes on the go, thanks to its touch screen. It is the only relevant difference for me right now between the 530 vs. the 830.
On YouTube...In the lower right hand corner, Click on settings, Click on speed, Set at 75%.
Great video.  I am looking to buy an Edge 530, but I have a question and I wonder if you might know the answer. 
I had to return a Wahoo Elemnt Bolt due to WIFI issues.  Wahoo only support 2.4 GHz.  My Network band is 5GHz.  It means Wahoo can't find my router, and therefore, I cannot transfer files or update software unless I use a different router such coffee shops, friends, etc.  Does Garmin have a similar problem you might know?
Thanks.
Hey DC. Is this “Climbs” gonna come to the 1030
Great review as always. I need your help, I’m new into cycling and in a market for a bike computer. Which one would you recommend, either 530 @ 830 and why? Really appreciate if you reply, thanks a lot!
Hey Ray - how does the process of loading a second map on the 530 work? Same as 520 plus? I've got the NA base map version on the way and need to add some custom Euro maps on there.
hope you can compare this with wahoo elemnt roam
So the "find my Garmin" functionality is going to actually be a PITA, as my 1000 connects and disconnects from the phone constantly
Hi Ray how many memory have the 530?
Should I get the Edge 130 or 530?
Can the Edge 530 read power data from my Wahoo Kickr while the Kickr is paired to a PC running Zwift.   And how the hell did riding a bike get this complicated :-)
Garmin 530 or Wahoo Roam? I’m coming from a Garmin 820 which has been buggy at times, not as good at navigation as I hoped and after 2.5 yrs use now only has a 4 hour battery life. My 810 before that was less than perfect too.  The 530 seems to have cool features but Wahoo has a reputation for being less buggy
Maybe I didn’t catch this.  Are Data fields selectable on a iPhone app?  Or must fields be selected/customized on the unit itself? (530)
I thought the review i read of yours on the 520 plus said that it will reroute you to get back on course too?

But in this video you say you are listing the new features and mentioned it being able to reroute you back on course.

So does the 520 plus also do it?
You do an interesting thing where you look to your right, briefly. That small break in eye contact makes me feel like I’ve lost your attention and you’re distracted. Nice vid!
Does it still automatically turn on the unit when you plug it in or unplug it?  That's one of the biggest gripes with my 520 because it turns my cycliq 12ce camera back on and starts recording so I have to shut them both back off again.
Is it possible to have the gps screen and your speed on the screen at the same time?
Is it still worth it getting this device this time around?
Literally have the 520 plus being delivered today... Is this worth the extra $20?
Great review looks like a pretty solid device now. Depends on the price of course and how many of those features I'll use. 

One major annoyance of the 520 is that it fails to upload rides half of the time, and have to turn the unit on/off again.
The mountain bike navigation on my Edge 520 Plus is very disappointing. Unit is too slow to keep up on twisty trails with many trail intersections. Should I expect the 530 to be markedly better?
Watched this after the GCN GMBN Challenge
Does it have ghost racing? I ride the same route to work everyday and want to beat my best time
What do you think i should buy? 520 plus or 530?
Good review as always with every review. This device does a lot of stuff I don't really think I would use features like the drink metrics, really what idiot needs to know that sort of stuff? I am here to try and determine what Garmin unit I will be go for next. I bought the Edge Explore and since installing Dura-Ace Di2 on my bike I found it doesn't play well with Di2. Can't Garmin do an update to get it to do that simple little thing? Is that to much more to ask from that unit? I guess I will have to spend hundreds dollars more just so I can do that and still have the same features which I like in the Explore unit. Most of the upper more expensive Garmins have more training features than I would find usable since I don't need to train at my age.
And was thinking to move to Wahoo next when I replace my Edge 820. This might change my mind.
is it possible to configure datafields with garmin app? this would be very useful.
Between 530 and 830, what are the notable differences ? From Garmin website, mostly just Touchscreen and Popular Routes for 830, but nothing else.... so is it worth buying 530 then ?
Is it still better than Wahoo bolt v2?
Why the hell is wahoo not able to have the climbpro feature
If it works I am sure the 530 Edge is fantastic - IF. I upgraded from the 520 to 530. I had no problems with the 520 and expected much. Except none of my sensors will pair with the 530? I am relying on GPS to tell me my speed? I have since changed my phone, reinstalled Garmin Connect but still it won't pair. Not happy.
Thanks for helping me, very good video, I have now to yers top model Mio and I hate this gps .Slow, and when I go racing and reining it's completely useless rein drops changing menu, pis of shit.I think to bay 530 ,90% for me it's Mtb so it's sold be perfect
520+ is good but indeed slow and battery life not good enough for long full day rides.  If you know it is slow, you can load your map in advance so that you don't need to wait and you are ready to go.  My issue are the batteries.
I was about to say, 'dude, you can pull 2700W !?' 😀
I just got the unit. I like it very much BUT the up and down buttons are very bad. If you push them gently it doesn't register the push. You have to press hard. They could have made them like the select button.
The lost location thing should be able to work the other way around. If I drop my phone the unit should log that location as well. Maybe this is already a feature? It should be!
Edge 530 or wahoo bolt?
For sure i ve missed something. I have activated climbPro feature in my profile, i sue strava segment but this morning during a free ride when i was climbiing one of my strava starred climb i have not seen anything in my edge. Do i have to ride a saved route ? i supposed that it would have actived climbpro screen everytime i m in one of my starred climb (they match garmin formula ..just checked)
Recommended
Does it come with physio trueup?
Can you stream real-time heart rate?
“Amstelve-enseweg” ... Dutch for “Maple St” ...

Someone posted on the Zwift Rider Facebook page asking if they should upgrade to the 530. Before I watched this, my answer “non-answer” was did the new features justify the price. I am very happy with my 130, because the extra features of the 520 wasn’t worth it in my mind. And clever training is selling the 820 for U$260. 

Now? Anyone interested in a used 130?
Has anyone figured out how to get rid of the virtual partner large green field on the bottom? It takes up so much space 🤨
You say it has a 20 hour battery life.
Is that you actually tested or just what garmin says?
Garmin said the 520 had a 15 hour batterylife but that never lasted longer then 8 hours.
No 16. Bluetooth connectivity problems, meaning, once you finish your ride, you must upload it manually.
Such incredible bloatware!
Has your FTP gone down some 30+ watts Ray? 😟
Will the Edge 1030 be OS updated to do the same?
this or wahoo elemnt bolt ?
what watch is that?
whats a rowt?
Edge 530 or Edge Explorer?
This lost features doesn’t work. I tried it and CAnt find my edge   Last location kept showing home location   Thanks for the review
Wahoo Elemnt or 530?
hey bro thanks for the video. just wondering how accurate is the battery life for the 530/830 in real world use? close to the 20hours or na?
Damn, would it kill Garmin to include a simple D-Pad? It‘s annoying enough on the watches ton navigate maps, but inexcusable on sich a big device.
Is this gps still worth it in 2023?
Your work is this Channel?
Garmin had a great sized device out called the 810 THEN they bought out the 820 which was smaller - I thought WHY just WHY... then they revamped the 1000 to 1030...

This is getting back to normal size but I just don't think Garmin are getting 'it' properly...!
Still lacks configuring the head unit from the app. As someone who runs a number of screens for various activities, this seems like a no-brained but I suppose Garmin thinks it’s a one-time setup so the investment in the app isn’t worth it.
I'm sure Garmin could add a load of these features to the Edge 520 or 820 units with software updates... but of course they won't, because they want your money ;)
If I already own a Garmin fenix 6x, apart from larger screen, why do I need a bike computer, when I can use the garmin fenix 6x?
Only if they have UI settings via phone..easier
5:36 https://youtu.be/CbeX_ruKt3k?t=337 what mount is that? Is it some 'under-stem-ring' mount? Link, please..
The 520 is so so so so so slow. Glad to hear it is faster. I havent finished the video yet but i hope the battery life is better
Sorry Ray, but nobody rides 5 miles without looking at their Garmin :-)
And I bought a Bryton Rider 450 6 months ago 🤦🏻‍♂️
the ui seems a bit snappier, but, mapping still looks clunky af
Does anybody know what is going on with Stages new Dash models. Breaking news last summer and since then - TOTAL SILENCE  ????
Screw Garmin , when is the Beer review up ?.
Faster processor on a Garmin Edge? What? Finally my Edge 800 will be slower than the newest models.
this may sound basic, but why can't Garmin make a phone app that does all what the Edge dose? I feel these bike computers should be redundant. Unless there is an app out there that does most of the Edge does already. If so please let me know
I noticed that you can buy rugged waterproof Android phones for $100. Are there any Android apps that are actually as good as a Garmin bike computer like this?
Any idea when available?
the screen resolution is horrible, you can make all the changes you want backlight always in included but it does not get better!! I had 520, batteries were the real issue but buttons and screen better!
Found this channel and appreciate the content as I am getting back into bike touring.  I am planning a cross country ride(USA) and am considering the 530 or the 520 Plus.  It's $150 price difference.

My primary use is navigation and loading alot of route/POI content from GPX files.

Is the difference between the two products worth it you think?
thanks for the tip to the written review. The YT is irritating to the point of being unwatchable
For those of us who are concerned about display size, is it fair to say that the 530 often has a larger area utilized for contents than the 830 seeing that the 830 needs to show software buttons in many contexts while the 530 instead overlays the icons indicating the functions of its physical buttons on top of the contents (e.g. pan/scroll/zoom in maps mode)?
Garmin 530 or Wahoo Roam?
never felt like a bigger idiot for buying a 520 Plus last year...... hope someone other brand
 leapfrogs so I can switch
Anyone else get this for Christmas
6% gradient in Amsterdam?! Impossible!
This aimed more for odd road????
2.7kw!!! 9:49
Garmin fanboys everywhere.
I'd be more impressed if Garmin devoted as much time on sorting their woeful interfaces and software than they do on frankly gimmicky shite like Grit and Flow.
If I will buy Garmin edge 530 in China , Europe map will also included?
Bike alarm is misleading to leave the garmin mounted on the bike while going into a cafe. Somebody can grab the garmin instead of the bike. :-)
“So bloody slow” cor blimey guvnor!
I still don’t get why anyone would buy a standalone bike computer at all - multi sport watches are way more useful in terms of what 80% of the planets sports people need. It’s literally like buying a point and shoot camera when you have a great camera in your mobile phone. Moving maps equates to having a mechanical shutter - yup sounds great? No one uses it, touch screen display? Yup, overkill, an up and down button works just fine and more tactile too. You can’t go for a run with a stand-alone, swim, dive, activity counting, use as a normal work/notification wrist top device etc etc 

I just don’t understand why people still buy these things 🤯
Was so close to buying a wahoo now this has come out hmmm rip my wallet
if they would only have made it touch screen.I see no reason to upgrade, kink of like just buying the newest I-phone for no reason other than it is new.
full map routing  Lezyne already know how to do that years ago and they cost a fraction of edge 530 price.  it's like Apple IOS vs andriod OS..  Garmin = Apple IOS, lmao.
I'm new in this things... so... let me understand.  Garmin Edge 520+ is the past model and Garmin Edge 530 is the next generation?
Inb4 all the butthurt 520+ buyers.
No USB Type C is a fucking deal breaker.
hi, my name is Kiko and I am writing from iGPSPORT contacting you for GPS BIKE REVIEW. Currently, we have a new product. You would be interested in that?
7:37 the correct way to say that is “how many bottles you should have drunk...” Not “should have drank”.
Please slow the dialogue down. For the love of God.
Take a breath, slow down.
So the 520 plus was possibly the worst buy ever.
Meh, I like my Edge 500 :P
same buttons material? That will crack within 2 yrs. 👎🏾👎🏾👎🏾
It’s not a nightmare, but really could be better. Too much bugs
Bought the 530. It is full of issues. Mainly does to connect to power meters. The new software patch does not solve the problems. This is a newly release as being the best thing out there. Well it does not work - so does not even make the cut of worth buying. Garmin should add another option to their surveys. Rather than "would you recommend the 530?" it should be "would you NOT recommend the 530?". Stay away from it if you want a happy ride.
3th
2nd
Sorry, you talk way too fast and it is aversive.  It is a shame because you really do know your stuff.
1st
Very knowledgeable, but I can’t understand this nice fella.  Diction, annunciation, it’s really difficult to hear certain words, and he hardly pauses in between sentences.  Let’s chip in some money to get him a speech coach.
Note: Beware of buying a Garmin 530 because it is a pile of junk, it restarts itself automatically. I contacted the Garmin support team, and they didn't find any solution for me.
I definately would not suggest to buy this one. Save some money and go to other brand.
- Requiring garmin Connect and Express is annoying...
- synchronize courses needs to be done one by one, sync with Connect does not take the new courses created by the same Garmin Connect.
- The usability to show when it is recording and not simply does not exist. Several times I rode kms to realize it was paused (mainly when using the navigation mode. Please Garmin, add a single icon, light feedback, anything...

If you will use just to get simple data MAYBE is an option, but anything more than this will have the annoying Connect and a terrible usability.
Hi. Really like this device however if using it at the range, surely the range balls will give wrong results?
Good review. Very interested learning more about how the launch monitor works.
Are the launch monitor statistics captured for later review?
Do you know if using limited flight range balls over normal balls would make a difference in the readings with the G80? If not would it be possible for a video on it thanks👍🏼
i practice with these soft rubber balls indoor. would it work?
Don't need a launch monitor.  What happened to the G8?  Is it discontinued?  Would it still be a good purchase if I find one?
This thing is actually amazing, I love mine.
Thanks for the honest review. You raise some very interesting points on why and why not to buy the unit.
May have missed it, but can it be used on an indoor net?
Can you track your club distances and then have clubs recommended?
Is it true it over heats and shuts down ,,when in practice mode?
Ugh so torn! Getting this or just shelling out another $1,300 for a skytrak that has so much more 😩
Can it make my ball go straighter, if not I don't need it for $500 pounds..
i love how the ball just disappears at 1:47
Is the unit waterproof in any way? My only concern is getting caught in the rain one day. I like the radar features,being able to work out the distance’s of each of my clubs and monitor swing speeds makes this s very attractive product. I would likely use it more for play than practice. The Approach S60 watch is the other product I’m considering. I like the idea of the larger display on the G80 but from a play perspective is it a better choice?
For that price what r u really expecting.
Hey folks! Thanks for watching! Don't forget to check out the full in-depth review for tons of details, especially on accuracy of optical HR and GPS, as well as more nuances of various features like PulseOx and FDA certification: https://www.dcrainmaker.com/2018/06/garmin-fenix5-plus-5s-5x-in-depth-review.html
Aloha. You do a awesome job explaining key points on every product you do a video. I appreciate you. 🤙🏽😀
this was a straight forward priceless review. thnks
Amazing review!!!
Comprehensive review, great thanks 🙏
Thanks Ray, geeky and useful!  Small detail, I'm using my Fenix 5S right now, (the old one), and note that the speed with which the menus change in your video, (plus version), is significantly faster than mine.
Great video - thanks. Just bought my Fenix :-)
Is there any other difference between 5 plus and 5X plus despite of the OXmeter, battery life and size?
Are the maps feature exactly the same?
Thanks and regards
Hey, nice video, just one question, is your fenix 5 is the sapphire edition ?
Is the map any smoother when rotating?  my fenix 3 has a delay when following a track
Great review - thanks. Do you know if there will or can be a firmware update for the 5X that will enable storage and playback of music?
Hey, there are a couple of things I seem to miss in every every review I've seen up to now (also for the 5x). How does entering coordinates work on the trail (and start navigation to them)? What options do you have for the map? Is north up also possible? Now we bought a vivoactive 3 for my wife I do like a number of functions, but I also want the mapping and use it for geocaching, so I need the option to enter coordinates easily. I also do prefer to have north up on gps, although I could work with track up if needed.
Hey Ray I have a question. I’m looking between the 5x plus or the Suunto 9 for ultramarathons...what has been your experience been in terms of gps accuracy for both of these?
Great detailed review as always. This is a very curious update. It added features I think some Fenix 5 owners were hoping could be software patch updated and other features that I think people were puzzled why the Fenix 5 didn't have. The price increase, is the real killer. With China putting out bargain watches that match the Fenix 5 Plus features (Amazfit Stratus) and from what I've seen are not complete crap, not mention mainstream competition,  I would have thought Garmin would be matching the outgoing Fenix 5 prices or maybe bringing them down. I'm curious to see how the market reacts.
Hi thanks for this review, I have a question, you mention that is the standard F5+ edition (non sapphire glass I presume) but looking at Garmin’s website I can’t see that model at all, the regular edition has a silver bezel, the only one with a black one is the sapphire edition but then it also has some red accents unlike the one in the video, could it be that they might release this regular edition colour later? I would like a black one but won’t pay the extra for an unnecessary (on my case) sapphire glass just for the colour.
Great walk trough. Biggest difference between 5 plus und 5x plus is the pulseox and the size or?  Hard choice then there are the 5 and the 5x. But the 5 has the best battery life from them all. Keep going
Hi Ray, I don’t need the music or mapping and currently have the original Fenix 3. I really want all the new training metrics are these identical for the Fenix 5 and plus? If so would you recommend saving the extra money and just upgrading to the Fenix 5. Many Thanks Adam
The screen resolution looks so much neater and sharper than the Fenix 3.
What headphones would you recommend with the Fenix 5 Plus? Hearing mixed results for different models (when it comes to dropouts and such).
My fingertip based pulse ox can get a reading in 5-8 seconds from wake up. Hope they improve pulse ox in future firmware revisions as it seems a bit poor at the moment.
Thanks for the details, Ray. Have you had a chance to test battery life on the Plus series yet? I’m curious how accurate the reported life is, or if you can extend that by turning off features such as the Pluse Ox, or monochroming the screen. Seems like weird product design to move away from the ultra/endurance market, but maybe that sells more watches overall and is worth the trade off. Any thoughts?
Just curious to see on the Fenix 5X Plus, if the Pulse Ox sensor on watch reads the same numbers as a medical grade sensor?  This would make for an interesting comparison.
On the music menu what does Control Phone option do ? Does it allow browse and selection of podcast/audiobook/music that is on the phone ? Like you can in any modern car via Bluetooth
Thanks for the great review. What Bluetooth headphones are you using?
Hello, very nice video! I have  2 questions. I own a Garmin fenix 3 and a Garmin fenix 5 plus. I tried both of them on a treadmill and the fenix 3 is extremely accurate about the PACE - distance while the fenix 5 plus even after several calibration is not accurate at all. Any suggestion about this issue? Maybe something I'm not doing properly?  The second question is about the VO2 ... does it change after a treadmill work out or it is affected only by an outdoor run? Thank you!!! :D
Great review!  After this review I am sold on the switch from my Suunto watch to the Garmin Fenix 5 Plus.  Does Garmin have an app/website to sync all of your activities too and share with others?  Thank you.
Hi Ray (or anyone else that can answer this) I mainly cycle but have decided to have a go at a couple of triathlons and obviouslt the fenix5plus is a better fit for that purpose than my current Edge 820. My question about the product is this, if I connect my vector 3 pedals tot he fenix and skip the 820 totally will I still get the pedal metics (left/right power, center offset power zone etc etc) as I get with the 820. Am not too worried if they aren't shown on the watch as long as they are still there and accessible in the connect app ??
Is it possible to load a course to the Fenix 5 plus, and have the course display during a ride, but not have navigation vibrations? On a MTB ride today, it was vibrating on every switchback...pretty annoying when I really just want to look at the map occasionally to make sure I’m on the right trail. Thanks!
Im yet to use my Fenix 5 Plus after adding the music and was wondering if the music starts when you start an activity on the watch? Could you advise please DCR? Thanks
Hey, can you charge the watch while tracking a tour/run without losing any data?
I am not sure if it is because of a new hardware or new software, but, to me, it got a buttery smooth and faster UI, don't you think so?
UI is much faster/smoother than my Fenix 5, I wonder if they upgraded the SoC?
Will an activity on an Edge show up via Garmin connect on the Fenix? Training status for example? If I hike and the ride my bike will the fenix know that I had more training/ stress?
Fenix 5x Plus - PulseOx 15:40
Hallo, if You are using Stryd, do You take speed and distance from Stryd or from GPS?
In the video you mention the 5x only difference is the PulseOX sensor. I thought I read it had a larger battery as well, can you confirm? Are these two differences (along with size) the only difference in the 5x? Also can you confirm if the processor / speed is the same as the 5x (none plus). Thank you for your amazing content!
Hi! Are you doing a Suunto 9 UI Walktrough anytime soon? 😊
How do you get your VO2 max on the watch?   Thanks
I really love the Fênix 5. But just worried if it's the right one for me. Is the display highly visible outdoors and under gym lighting? I'm partially blind and worry about the brightness. The only sports I do are cycling, swimming and lifting weights. Think this is a good match?
Probably not a big issue at all with Fenix 5 fans, but using buttons to cycle through and dismiss/archive social media notifications doesn’t seem very easy. The strength activity IMHO works better with a touch screen too. A Fenix 5 with buttons and a touch screen might be a good  option in the future.
Hi All,

What's the difference between Fenix 5S Plus and Fenix 5S? Is it worth to spend extra money for Plus?
Do you happen to know what version of Bluetooth it's using?
Hmmm the possibility to test if you're having sleep apnea with the pulseox
I just bought this watch today I know it a 5 and there is a couple more upgrades but I have been a samsung galaxy watch user and they have nothing like this and also it's like I just upgraded to a better watch the only thing I'm going to miss is the bezel but thanks for the review
Do you think the Garmin fenix 5 plus sapphire is worth 200 dollars more than fenix 5 sapphire?? I dont Think Ill use the maps much, so its more if the watch is worth the 200 extra for music, Better gps etc.
Garmin slightly changed the design of the fenix 5/5x plus from the previous model. This year is still nice but I prefer last year's design.
Hi, how do you choose between this or the polar grit X at the same price?
Is the Bluetooth signal on the Fenix 5 plus strong while steaming music via the watch? Or is it flaky like the Garmin Forerunner 645?
Just curious, what headphones are they - I'm looking into getting something for running that would pair with my 645 Music...ta - no rush.
I can't tell from this, did they remove the move notification (where it buzzes if you haven't walked enough)?
Is the calorie count fixed on this watch? I ask because I had the 5 and had to return it. Was showing 2.5 to 3 times my burned calories. Looked in forums and many others have had the same issue but, I loved the watch. So, is it fixed on this one?
didn't see "pool swim" profile. is it there?
No sleep details in the watch? Still waiting for that...
I have the Fenix 5 Sapphire, should i upgrade? the only new thing is the NFC payment and the maps or?
Good video, thanks!if you could answer calls couple questions, its important for me to measure blood oxygen. I know that this unit measure heart rate but could you verify that the oxymeter actually measures oxygen similar to one a person would use one there finger. 
The other is, it appears that you really like Garmin, so would you say it's definitely worth the money.  via the website, the oxymeter only comes in the 51 mm. That's a big watch.
Can I choose tenis sport options?
How do you set up the vo2 max and training load?i have only just got my watch
But is it true that the fenix 6 will come out soon?
Interesting video. It seems to me to assume you are very familiar with these kinds of watches. However, the Fenix 5 plus is my first watch of this caliber. Reading Garmin's manual is not very helpful. In this video you are pushing the buttons very fast. Is there a video that explain what each button does , when to push it depending on what you are doing, etc? I.E, sometime during setup I got the language set to unknown language which I didn't know. I looked and looked and read the manual to try to get English back. Tried doing a complete reset tono avail. Fortunately, I did get it back, but for the love of me I do not know how I did it. What is the process to actually set something when you decide it is what you want. How do you add the icons to the circular view or to delete them?
It's runnig with Bluetooth 5??
I have the 5 Plus that I got a week ago and am wondering how I get VO2 max & Training Status settings configured. I'm a cyclist and hiker, not a runner and when I go to widgets and locate the VO2 max display it says to run 10 minutes with heart rate 2 times. It also says 'No Status' for my training status and the same message about running 2 times. I've got several hiking activities already logged and saved. Appreciate any help. Thanks.
My Fenix 5X Plus updated today to 3.10 and now there is no Pulse Oximeter Widget. Was the Pulse Oximeter option taken away? Can you verify with your watch?
6:18 "if I go arof that, you.. can.. see.. my.. paypal password ?!?? oh shit!"
Quick question: did you get so healthy from running alone?
Are you on a beta firmware? I cant seem to find the GPS - Galileo support on my watch ..
I tried adding topoactive Europe on my Fenix 5x plus it failed said not enough storage and I had zero songs or anything else on there yet any advice?
Could you use an iPod Touch and still get most of the functionality?
Is there anyway of disabling or pausing the steps?
I was so disappointed with the Fenix 5X because the screen was sooooo dark. How does the plus compare?
If I got it right, the 5S and 5 don't have map support, but the 5S Plus and the 5 Plus do?
For us newbies, I have the following suggestions:
One. Speak more slowly
Two. It is not always clear which button you're pressing. Try to have only one finger over the buttons at one time.
Does the f5x plus have notifications icons like whatsapp?
Whats the most accurate among the 3?gps?gps+glonass or gps+galileo?
cant help myself, but I find the silver line on the top of screen disrupting :)
is the heart rate bluetooth or ant plus?
Isnt it better to wait for 6?
Is it me?, or there is NO way to adjust the date?, I just made a mistake and entered the wrong month when turning on the watch for the first time, and now I realize there is no way to set the right date... how annoying.
I will wait for further updates. Rumor has it that one of the next versions will measure the length of one's toenails and precise pubic hair curvature. This together with GCT, GCB, instant messaging and music for hours on end will provide a long awaited catalyst, both in motivation and in performance
Hello Master of cycling gadgets :-)
I have a tough question ! 
I have notices that when i am recording an activity at zwift then there is no impact at garmin connect app regarding  training status or training effect.
I have written that you must record only from garmin device in order to get these data updated. 


At the same time the data are not equal from garmin device and zwift-tacx neo . Most of the times the km are much less at garmin devices than zwift-tacx neo recordings ! 


My equipment is garmin 520 + tacx neo +zwift.


At fenix 5 + happens the same


What the heck is happening ? 


Does the NEW POLAR syncs perfect with zwift?
Interesting to see the Fenix 5 plus looks a little beaten up already. The black bezel is marked. So it’s no more durable cosmetically than the previous generation.
Anybody else go check their VO2 max to compare?😝
Beautiful watch, great for outdoors but horrific for gym training and indoor use! Polar is way better for that!
This or 6x ?
These watches need touch screen (with  physical buttons as well).... It would be so easy and natural to use them. Now I see just pain and struggle.
I’m going to buy the 5 plus sapphire. Ever hear of factoryoutletstore.com? Legit or not? $479.99 for black leather band model.
does it support more than 2 genders??
Adele, Taylor Swift?  Better be your wife's playlist!
It's funny how the watches are bigger and bigger but the screen always same size and same low resolution... i think Garmin should consider it everytime they increase the new version price !!!!!!
Terribly inaccurate watch.  Pulse rate is always off.  GPS is mostly spot on, but not reliable as the Suunto.  I returned my Fenix, went back to Suunto.
Really bad watch, get scratched in 5 second, not that interesting, any other half price watch will do the same or better job - returned! BOOM! 💥
I have the rose gold version of this watch , absolutely love it after being Fitbit for years. Love the way it just looks like a watch ♥️💕 ❤️
Great review by the way XX
Nice review. Thanks.
Although I did kinda lol at "or even hiking", wouldn't that be covered by the walking mode?
can you use it as a stop watch or timer?
Will the clock work with an empty battery?
Why did you not show the app and what stats you get?
Can one show the digital time at the same time as the analog? - or does the hands move "away"? thanks, Levi in Sweden
can this watch show dual time zone? because i travel a lot, can i show Boston time vs Bangkok time?
hi! what material is a "glass" of this watch? i think it is a plastic, not mineral glass :/
And what about message, calls and WhatsApp alerts? How it works?
What's the battery life like?
is it normal for my cursor randomly move around?
does it store music?
Is the heart rare on constant 24/7 the lights are never off always on yes.
I guess the hour hand should have been yellow, and the minute hand some other, still clearly readable, color. Stupid basic mistake they made.
how long the battery can live?
I dont think 2 days is a long enough to review any HR watch. Especially it's sleep/awake functions. Just mho
