Fantastic walk-thru. Thanks so much!
Excellent hands-on review on the features and how to operate the Garmin Forerunner 35. Nice one mate 👍
Wonderful walk thru! Your info is straight and to the point!
Hi, thanks for the detailed review. I've been running for about 4 years and finally looking to get a watch to track my runs instead of my phone. Looks like this is the right one for me.
Just seen this video today reason ordered one that was refurbished $99 with 2 year warranty!  Your video is very informative for sure now can get started in no time. IM A CYCLISTS HAVE GARMIN EDGE EXPLORER BUT DOESNT DO ANY OTHER THINGS. THANKS
Garmin connect is brillant it connects very quickly it helps me alot
Can you add kayaking activity on the Forerunner 35
Hey mate, can you control logging interval of heart rate?
Hello  , I’m having a hard time finding out if it comes with all you need to go, as far as charger wire and cradled,  I’m scouring amazon and it’s like 145$   And then 159  with wire bundle    Do hey really sell this without all the items needed and you have to buy wire and charger separate?
 I couldn’t find you link to support
hay what do you think is a better watch this is the polar m430 i like the size of this but the way you can adjust gps intervals on m430 to save battery also for gym work what is better?
Can you use a footpod for this for indoor running on a track?
Does it broadcast hr to alle bike computers which support ant+ or does it only broadcast to Garmin computers?
Love it
Hello,i just want to ask about the meteo coz is it only me that can't  see the meteo in my garmin forerunner 35 it always says waiting for data even though it's already connected to my smartphone.
Thanks
How long to charge and how long does it last per charge?
Does this give real time info if I'm doing a trail run? ie, can I see my pace and distance ran as I'm racing? Thanks
Does the watch track the pace of every miles ? I would like to improve my running time, currently I'm don't know what distance and time for my run.
hi, can you view a map of your run route on the connect app
are you able to control Podcasts in the music control?
Thank you so much for a great video! The User Manual stinks.
If I buy a new one in Jan 2019 , would the battery still be as new considering that the watch was released 2+ years ago?
Good day....stopwatch available for this fr35?
Hi, is it possible to se what speed you are travelling at, when cycling on a bike?
can this watch go under the sea and how deep ?
Is music volume control possible from music control menu? Thx :)
can you swim with it?
Just 2 watch faces ?
Still worth buying it in 2019?
Thank your for the concise, quality review! Great job.
Ok mate I’ve got to say you absolutely nailed that review, I need to be able to review like this! It was short, snappy but had everything you’d need to know!! You’re a natural 👍
HANDS DOWN one of the best reviews I've seen on YT! Thanks!
While you can't access stride length on the watch, it does track it and load to Garmin Connect which is nice.
Thank you. This helps me make a decision. Yes
Very solid review. great remarks and informative .
Just the video I was looking for!!! This video came at the perfect time, since this past month I’ve been interested in the FR35, but I couldn’t find a 2018 review. Can’t tell you how happy I am to have stumbled upon this!
Is the pacer good when  it tells you your on pace?   Is there any other watch would you suggest?  Or would you stick to it thanks
Where u get ure t-shirt from
Nice review.  I LOVE THIS Watch!  I really wanted a heartrate monitor on my watch but not all the other complicated stuff some of garmin watches offer.  When you download your run to your garmin app it will give you the cadence. It's SO SIMPLE.  I had an EPSON and I never did figure it out.
Super helpful review. Thanks!
Great review sir!
What about cirkle you run, did exist that?
Great review. I recently bought Vivoactive 3 as i do more than running now :-)
Excellent review.
Great review, Jordan. I like to be able to review my activity without having to transfer the data anywhere. Am I able to call up my last run on the watch and scroll through the speed of each mile - I was able to do this on my 205 which has now expired.
Great review :) 
I want to get this watch for my dad, but he sometimes has trouble viewing small numbers in a watch. He really just wants to keep track of his heart rate while exercising. I was wondering if the watch could be set to only show the heart rate numbers to get really big numbers? 
Also, he goes out in his bike at night, so I was wondering if the screen could be kept with the backlight on without having to press the button so he can constantly look at the watch without the hassle of turning on the backlight?
Thanks a lot
I have seen the run walk feature on video, but is it also possible to apply walk/run/walk/run, or is this possible with the interval option?
Can it show kmh max in the display or the app? I am considering to use it in an RC boat for max speed reference. 
An answer would be much appreaciated. 

Awesome vid BTW! Cheers
Thanks, Jordan. Seems like a nice watch for the money. What's your regular fitness watch?
When using the watch does the gps record the location of your runs do you need your phone when running with the watch to record your location
Can you leave the screen on heart rate when doing an activity or does the display revert back? I just want to see heart rate without constantly pressing a button.
Does the data transfer directly across to strava via iphone at end of a run or does it have to be near computer to do so?
I know this review is old but, I'll post this question anyhow. Does anyone know if this watch can be set up so the heart rate monitor stays on the screen. It's frustrating that I have to keep pushing the button to see my BPM. The only reason I even have this watch is to monitor my BPM during workouts. Thanks in advance.
In addition to running, can you use it for activities such as CrossFit or Zumba? My chest strap monitor is becoming a pain and I'm looking for a watch that will tell me my heart rate and calories burned during a workout.
Not a stop Watch!? wow, okay, great info. TY.
Good work
Is this watch able to be used safely for lap swims in a pool for durations of 45 to 55 minutes?
Hey man, I´m training pretty serious and I need a GPS watch. 
I just want to buy a good quality, budget GPS watch that can last me for 5 years or so, I hate to worry about buying new gadgets after 1 year...
Is this watch a good fit for my needs?
Thanks you've just helped me decide on it, to amazon i go :) God bless you!
Dude, help me out here pls. Vivoactive 3 and Forerunner 35 are now on sale for $99. Which one should I pick ?
Is it possible to change the strap to a different brand?
This review was so helpful, but I’m not sure what you mean by there is no stopwatch.
Garmin forerunner 35 or Huawei gt2e sport ? What do you think ?
I hear you saying the cadence feature is good for beginners but not for more advanced runners - how come? Thanks.
How does this work for Hiking? Elevation gain or anything like that?
Great video dude! Too pricey though
Thank you for the nice review.  I saw one at Walmart for $92.  You make me what to buy one.  😄.  One question if you don’t mind, please.  A reviewer at Amazon complained that when he was running at one speed, then he slowed down or he accelerated, this Garmin doesn’t update right away.  It takes “minutes” for Garmin to finally “responds” and “updates”.  Is that true?
Just got it for like $125 ok amazon heavily discounted. I hope I like it more than my amazfit bip.
Hey Guys! What watch do you use for running and why?
Does it receive phone calls and make phone call thanks
does it show vO2 max
No stopwatch on a sportswatch??? WTF. Good review btw.
like me if you don't use a smart phone you can upload to garmins site for info with your computer
No Stopwatch is a criminal omission, I went for the TomTomSpark 3 instead
The worst fitness watch ever! I had this watch for about a year and a half and got extremely frustrated with it, especially the heart rate sensor, which was the reason I purchased it in the first place. I would do a HIIT workout in which I could barely breath or keep up and the watch would tell me my heart rate is 85 BPM. Sometimes it would jump to 120BPM maybe a 145BPM. Garmin support was not very helpful other than suggesting what I already tried,  Making the strap tighter, clean the sensor, shave my arm. None of that actually worked.
Need a better voice mic - found it hard to understand you over the music
I couldn’t be more disappointed with the product and I have been very loyal to Garmin for years. Every Garmin product I have owned has been superb...until now. The heart rate measurement on the Forerunner 35 is pathetic. It is woefully inconsistent, often inaccurate, has frozen during several workouts, and is simply not dependable. If you row, ruck, do full body interval circuits, etc. or anything where you quickly and/or frequently move your arms, this is the wrong Garmin product.

Garmin should include a big, bold, italicized, and underlined disclaimer in the product description: “If your workouts are varied and more intense than steady state running, our chest strap products will be far more accurate, nearly always consistent, and far more dependable. Wrist-based heart rate measurement is NOT AS ACCURATE AS OUR CHEST STRAP PRODUCTS.”
Dismal. Keeps switching off to update software!
I have realised that heart rate reading is in big part completely made up by software instead of actual sensor. It estimates HR based on movement sensor. Rubbish.
Download links

https://www.activejr.com/best-garmin-watch-faces-2018/
Graphomatic is my favorite.   It's got the weather forecast, my heartrate,  and either the ambient pressure or elevation.   Looks simple and nice too.
Line is a great face, I have used it since 2017.  I note your face shows no data for the weather?  This has only ever worked for a very short time for me and every time the software updates (Firmware etc) it breaks the weather part of the app.  If you get it working please let me know!
like them! I'm still on the simple version :-)
Hi, I got a 5 plus and do not have the watch-face, that you call the standard.
I would like to use it - can I get it from anywhere, when it is not the standard on my watch?
Thanks a lot.
I use Style 5 by the same author as SC9, like it very much. Would be interested in your opinion. Keep it up!
i notice a lot of people focusing on the negative or complaining in these comments. very sad
X-face is the best watch face, there's no competition
Here we are three years later in 2020. The F5+ is an awesome watch that's still expensive, particularly because the Fenix 6 is out. Even the fenix 3 is still sold and expensive. I just got an F5+ Titanim Sapphire and it's just beautiful and functional. I'm a trail runner so I can't ask for anything better.
Great shots dude👊🏼🙌🏼
Top quality content!
I just received the Fenix 5s today. Like you, I can't believe for this price Garmin did not add storage to the phone. I've gotten use to carrying my phone if I want to listen to music, but I would love not to have to carry "one more thin" when I run. Thanks for the video.
Nice outdoor shots.
Tobias: This is an excellent video and provides a grounded view on the positives as well as the downsides of the Fenix5. The compulsion to be an early adopter and buy this ubercool watch is overwhelming; your video seeks to make ppl like me pause, think twice and then make an informed decision. Thanks for sharing...
Nice video... Subscribed.
Why would I want the 5 form fa tor with the 6 tech? It's nice to have a larger screen
Just got mine on 02/23/2018 the best purchase. Although I paid $612 on mine for the regular Fenix 5...(non Sapphire) version. Anyways, regardless it helped me track everything...I mean EVERYTHING! I lost 9 lbs so far...yes I rum 3 miles and do HIIT. Every 2x a day...I only eat less than 1000 calories and I do detox water with Apple Cider Vinegar. I refuse to believe everyone that told me I lost weight because I thought they just haven't seen me in a while. Until I look in my scale..not only that this watch kind of reminds me of how hard I work at my job and physically at the gym afterwards...love it.
Why would you charge it on your wrist?
You're bound to the cable, can't go anywhere.
Nice cool outdoor shots. The video is awesome
I have fenix 5x great
Actually, I don't expect to have music storage for a sport watch. Only those who want to turn on and tune out will complain about this.  When I'm in nature I'd rather hear nature.  Otherwise, nice review!
Should I buy a Galaxy Watch or a Fénix 5s Saphire? I have a Samsung S9+
Fenix 5x is awesome
Hey man, so would you go for the Fenix 5 or the Fenix 3HR?
Great video thanks!  Has helped me make a decision.  My wife has the Forerunner 235, which has an absolutely awful screen resolution and put me off Garmin.  The Fenix 5 is about to release in NZ, so I'll have to check it out! :-)  Just subscribed.
Nice vid bro
The Mp3 player is amazing......bluetooth signal goes threw my ENTIRE house, basement and all....amazing signal!
Does anyone notice that in the Fenix 5 open water, the GPS distance continues to increase even when you stop swimming in the water. It continues to show an increase of about 10-15 meter after you stop swimming.
hey, nice review! what's the intro tune?...:)
Hi, Garmin 5X or Apple Watch 3 ???
Garmin does make a smaller unit, and it's called the Fenix 5s.
You said dust proof yet the specs from Garmin say it is not
How long it last before it obsolete? It is beautiful but does fitness tracker at this price point is worth it? I'm looking for my first real watch that looks good and tell time at a glance at my wrist, and maybe a bit of music control function(if I get a smartwatch like this instead traditional Quartz watch), fitness is not necessary for me as I think all the number I get from the data won't directly help me, I improve my jogging on my own way. Although I didn't own and experiences any fitness tracker yet, do you think fitness tracker make sense and useful for me?
You do realize there is a Fenix 5s that is 41mm and designed for women or people with small wrists. So no need to wait for Fenix 6 as you stated in your video.
I cant imagine a scenario where you would want to charge the watch, while on your wrist? lol...
totally very expensive and the fact they kept wifi away from the regular version is clear miss step on Garmin, they should include it.. and upgrade firmware.
I have fenix 5.. having gps problems while running
JTOUR solved all its problems only cost 40% of it
Pls stop dropping it
Lets fet right into it haha typical fucking youtuber line
damn. I'm first 🙃
Name face
Bought mines now for $250 secondhand mint condition. I do believe these watches are over priced and should only sell in this $200-$300 price range.
Dude, obviously you didn't read the manual of neither F3 or F5, you'll see that actually F3 has a way much better battery!!! 6 WEEKS
The was by far the best and most informative video on this subject that I have found. Thanks for taking the time to put it together.
I appreciate you making this vid. I was about to return my fénix 5X. Since I saw this vid I love my watch even more.
Thanks for the video, most appreciated. I like that you do respond to peoples request and the fact that your videos are fact based without too much 'see me, hear me' attitude
Thanks for the instructions, they were very clear and help me navigator through the menus and the app.  I've only had the Garmin for a week so this video has helped me get up to speed on this new tech!
thank you for this! I personally like the Rings
Glad I found this video.  Couldn't figure out how to install as I didn't know you had to go back to the Connect app to sync.  The store just kept saying installing and never got anywhere.
Like before watching just for Garmin :))))
Found it! Banging thank you.
hey can you please tell if this watch would display accurate maps in middle eastern countries and does it come pre installed or do we have to buy them after purchase
Fantastic and easy to understand. Thanks much.
Excellent clear video. Much appreciated.
Great video, excellent work, thank you
Good Video, I like Crystal watch face.
Best Tips. Keep it up
Thanks for the video! But I think i'll stick to the default minimalistic watch faces. Some of them look so messy.
Great video 👍
Got this watch today. Happy except resolution is way behind that of competition. Think my 90s Gameboy was better lol. Great vids by the way
Thanks a lot,
Great vids Thanks. Very helpful, would be faffing about for ages without them. Presently trying to load up Music from my Spotify Plays lists. If you could help with that I'd be grateful.
Thanks for the upload! Do you know if the battery dies faster depending on the complexity of the watch face?
Hello!
I have seen that your watch also sets temperature. Does the fenix 5X have the sensor built in or do you use that Tempe accessory?
HI
Every time i want to download watch faces it says "SORRY, THE APP WASN'T SENT TO YOUR DEVICE BECAUSE WE'RE HAVING TROUBLE COMMUNICATING WITH OUR SERVERS. PLEASE TRY AGAIN LATER."
what should i do with this?
Thank you for an excellent, informative, easy to follow video tutorial. Those three things are difficult to combine. I'm new to the Garmin watch. Been through Fitbits & Samsungs and just wasn't satisfied with them. The Fenix 5s I received yesterday is fabulous and now, thanks largely to your video, I have a much better understanding of the operation.
Fênix 5 is compatible with bird eyies?
Can I use these watchfaces for the new garmin venu?
Glad to see a happy customer. Greetings, dirkvd001
Is it possible to add your heart rate to the front dial of a Fenix 5?
How can  i find my Lost Garmin fenix 5
How many watch faces can be sent to the fenix?
I can only four watch faces and cant be added anymore.
Does the Fenix 6  Pro have its own watch faces?
I am considering this watch..
I take local Hikes that incorporate a lot of up hill ( from sea level to 350 ft above sea level )

To Maximise Stress upon my body and thus workouts.
My hike takes me to 100 or so feet above sea level
To then 8 stories of stairs ..
I then either continually walk right back down the stairs and back up ( up to 5 times ) or continue on a half mile loop that returns me back from top of hill to bottom of the stairs..

Currently i do this 5 times..
Though have started incorporating more times up and down the stairs before i take the loop from top of stairs back to lower section of where stairs start..

So..
What i seek in a Exersise watch...
Is Accurate walked steps..
As well as Maping showing my full route
( including the return of same area..like the steps or loop i do ) Plus gathering total Alitude taken
( not just highest hill i had gone up..but accrewed hight obtained in the redoing sections of my hight and re going up of flights of stairs)..

Being able to map..get total steps made..total distance covered.. total stress upon my heart ( to better see how my body is best adjusted to my working out ) and total caleries burned..

Is this watch able to perform and obtain this data relitively acurately and reliably..

Thanks in advance
Is there anyway of pausing or disabling the steps?
I keep being told to update my Fenix 5 plus in Garmin Express. Garmin Express tells me I’m up to date? Any help?
what are the watch faces on the beginning of the video
What's the Omega style watchface you had on your phone near the beginning of the video?
How come the seconds hand is constantly showing on the watch? On my F3HR it only shows for few seconds and then disappears.
Where I can get that breitling face?
Just got the watch and I can't download anything. It says I have to update it with garmin express? Can u use ur phone or something to update it?
Mine ist Crystal
I just got my Fenix 5X and while the hardware is amazing, I think the display is terribly dark, even on 100% brightness, it is almost impossible to see inside... anyone else feel that way?
On Android Garmin Connect, "MORE" is on the top left (burger icon)
How to delete watch faces from fenix 6 pro
B gmt Dark is gone unfortunately.
ActiFace is by far the BEST watch face......... no need any other watch faces!
the one that rotates
HA: there's NO way a Garmin can be confused with a Breitling... You might fool some of the ladies, but not all of them!
After I customise a watchface, if I dont like it, how to delete it ?
SC8
Punisher
This will not work at all
You say there's hundreds, but I only see 51.
That’s maybe the worst looking watch face I’ve ever seen lol
Hi! This is an older video of mine. Watch one of my newer videos here and let me know if I've improved: https://youtu.be/Kxsn86OyaKk
Making this video was a labor of love. Instead of releasing 3 videos this week i decided to focus on making one higher quality video. If you have any suggestions or video ideas please comment below. And remember to please like the video! 👍
Such a good watch.  I have the 5s and have been loving it since Day 1.  For me the wrist heart rate sensor was not too accurate while I was hiking at times... will likely do the same hike with my chest strap and compare.
liked and subscribed. just bought mine for a killer deal last night after having been in my cart for about a year. too excited to start using it. great video!
Many thanks for posting. I've got the  
Fenix 5 Sapphire arriving today! A bit late as usual, for me; but I'm really looking forward to it! It'll defo be an upgrade and a half from the Forerunner 35 that I'm currently wearing. I'll let you know my thoughts in a week!
This video glorified this watch to the max, loved it!
Love your review. Thank you. 
Whats the wifi function on the watch for? Fenix 5 and 5s doesnt have wifi, only 5x has it?
Enjoy your video!
Clearly help and  complete information!
Very informative thankyou, all the deets I needed to know
I've had the sapphire a few months now. No regrets.
What you recommend fenix over Apple Series 3 ?
Hey, nice video! I just have one Q: The buttons are clicky or are pushers like Casio?
Great review.!!
Excellent review, thank you!
Best 5 review in Youtube.
Found a new sapphire version for $259+tax and shipping for $300 total. I think that's a fair price.
Been into fitness for decades looking forward to using this watch. Take a break from charging it all the time. Looking at you Galaxy 3. 👀
Instead of the ridiculous company made "ninetynine-ninetynine" repeated over and over to fool customers, just stay the price as it is! 700 Dollars plus tax or 800 plus tax!
Great video...Subscribed.
Beaitiful video...
Is it worth buying even now...i.e April 2019? Sae this in the store today and thought that may be this model may be in for an update, what say you?
Thanks,
Can some of those other screens be turned off if not wanted or needed. I just want a watch with a compass on it. Don't need or want all the other screens.
Best review thanks
How long it last before it obsolete? It is beautiful but does fitness tracker at this price point is worth it? I'm looking for a watch that looks good and tell time at a glance at my wrist, and maybe a bit of music control function, fitness is not necessary for me as I think all the number I get from the data won't directly help me, I improve my jogging on my own way. Although I didn't own and experiences any fitness tracker yet, do you think fitness tracker make sense and useful for me?
"the tracking is so precise that it even konws which side of the street i'm on" 
*gps shows him flying over roads and across the river in a straight line* 

lol, great video though!
Will this garmin watch play music from your wrist? To a bluetooth speaker or head phone???
Is it safe to swim with this watch for 2-3 days a week? Cause Fitbit charge 3 didn t last more that a month after I used it for swimming
Garmin site says that the fenix 5 has stress tracking and rep counting. Can you add some clarity on this in your review?
Did you say it will not pick up Hr if sweating?
Hi. Great review. It seems there are so many reviews on all the fenix 5 models I've just bought a quatix 5 sapphire and can't find any quality tutorials or reviews just 1 unboxing vid. Some1 please review the quatix 5🙏🙏🙏
if garmin made a watch that looks the same but with  a third of the functions, less thick and cheaper i would buy it for sure
Cringed when you put the watch face down on a tile/marble/granite surface to plug it it.  This WILL scratch the bezel If you continue!
can make calls or receive calls ,reply messages ?
Curb your enthusiasm
You reviewing a watch for sports that it doesn't seem like you participated so what value is there in your opinion
heard that the watch was really inacurate
Is it good for pilots
WHEN YOU BUY ANY GARMIN PRODUCTS!!!Know that it is their policy not to change rechargeable  batteries instead they will ask to pay 1/3 of the original price to get a refurbished unit!!!
If you are used to something like an Apple Watch or an Android then get ready for an ergonomic nightmare
What about the dissapointing GPS accuracy? i mean its reaaaaly bad... so muchs so that they should recall the product.
Too bad that after 5 years the watch is not good anymore. No replaceable battery available for this
It's funny you don't mention that you can't replace the battery
Hang on!! did you say the heart rate monitor will not work if you'r sweating!!!!!!??? So not good for a work out!! lol. (3mins 40sec into video).
yeah what's it do num nuts?
Just got mine for 350$$$$$$
What do u get when u spend $600 on a watch? Nice packaging lol
7x solar is now the beast 
This one looks like a joke
5 years old & still better than apple 2022 stupid watch
Too pricy
Need to learn how to wear a watch properly.
sport watch? you know not everyone is training for the Olympics. why are all these watches made for fitness freaks?
Just awful watch, nothing more 👎👎
is it worth buying in 2023 or should I go for a newer model?
Didn't get to see the map on this
Dopo 2 anni i contatti della ricarica sono logori. Non lo prenderei mai più
