I wasn't going to get one but the Gummy Bear container sold it to me. Might even get one for my wife.
Had to bring out the jacket for this one; on point👌👌
With Gen Two, Garmin 'fixed' the only issue that Gen One had - the brightness of the display. Outdoors there was no issue. I must say the new display looks amazing and maybe by the time I need to upgrade my Gen One, it'll be Gen Three - but happy with it every minute it is on  my wrist. Caulk it up to buying a tool that you use multiple times an hour every day of the year and the price per use is a bargain!
In the review the Marq 2 is considered similar to Epix 2 but actually it has a display of 1.2” which is smaller than the 1.3” of the Epix 2. That is a big difference between the watches.
It looks really really good. By far the best looking sportswatch so far.
Its a good morning when Mr. DC has a new video😎
Awesome. I only got on YT just now hoping you had received and reviewed one! Incredibly good looking Watch all around. It did look substantially thick though! Thanks for review
Love it how you dressed up to be somewhat in style with the watch.
I literally laughed out loud when the camera switched and you were wearing the sport coat at your desk.  😂
Im owning a Marq Commander Gen 1 and im wearing it nonstop for three years now. For me it is the best watch i ever had. Its also the smallest of the Marq Collection and the size fits best. The other models are too chunky. Got it second hand for half the price tag and it is totally worth it. There is a niche Market for this definitely. Its for those people that like to spend much money on watches, that like the functionality of a SmartWatch but want to have it in best quality materials almost Like an analog watch. I think they dont care if it is outdatet in three years. But within this time frame the quality of the watch Material stays the same. It got saphire glass and it still looks like brand new. I would be more interested to see how the Gen 2 Marq Commander looks like. Wouldnt be worth for me to Change, but i think for people interested might be interesting to wait for it, since i think is the best model of the Marq collection, kinda understatement in appearance.
I evaluated all these new Garmin watches and decided to buy The Fenix 7x. Battery lasts over 30 days! It also has the biggest display option available. I like big watches. I don't need AMOLED display that drains the battery, I want my battery to last. That's why Fenix 7x is the perfect choice for me!
Our Ray dressed sharp for the occasion - Legend! :D
I just got one for Christmas and love it.
Love the addition of the sport coat. 😂
Excellent as always, keep them coming… 🇬🇧
Looking sharp Brother Ray!
You're the best, as always! ❤
Love the coat! Very formal! (nice watch, too!)
This watch looks amazing 👏
jeez, those are beautiful watches.  
if my stock portfolio triples, i might buy one.  
it's fitting that you wore a sport coat for this review.
Your jacket is really nice Ray 😊
Being able to load in flights in advance to have it adjust your suggested workouts in advance would be a very helpful
Wow they released this beast at last!
Great video, thx for sharing! I wonder if there are any hardware differences between the athlete and adventurer version, or would it be possible to configure the athlete version just like the adventurer in terms of technical aspects?
Thank you for great honest review as always, why not change the design for that price? Thinner for the example.
Garmin has their entire launch strategy ass backwards. This year they released, more or less, watches in order from basic --> best. Using a 935 for the last few years, I felt the itch to jump on the next high-end multi-sport watch and ordered the Epix G2, and I love it. While they look wonderful, there is nothing so compelling about the new MARQs that will persuade me to pick one up now that I've made my triennial Garmin investment. Release your flagship first, and I likely spring for one to satisfy the itch.
I hope Garmin won’t keep focusing on the appearance other than firmware, function and bug fixes. From years of fenix users to epix, the upgrade is significant and it’s making sense for better screen with higher resolution. From epix2 to marq, it misses the fundamental genie of Garmin watch, we want to use Garmin when we are doing activities and we want to monitor it. Marq vs epix is like lexus vs toyota. If I make enough money, probably I would pay extra for the look. However, 2k invest on relatively short life span watch seems not a good investment to me. I would spend that on bike hiking gear instead. 😀
Damn that price tag is insane! My Fenix 6 Solar was not the cheapest back then but this Marq Athlete sets a new level.
I was planning on getting the captain. 
I wear an epix gen 2 all the time and switch to a nicer watch from time to time. It seemed nice to have an epix that I would switch less.
But hearing that the software updates stop 2,5y later is too short. 
So just going to keep switching out when I want and keep mainly relying on my oura ring.
Thanks for a great video. They should have added a microphone and a speaker to make this the ultimate fitness/smart watch and maybe justify the price a little more.
I've been  using the first generation Marq Athlete, for a few years now, I absolutely love this watch, I'm tempted to get the generation 2 the carbon fibre edition.
I really like the way the strap is like the Instinct strap now. I find my Fenix uncomfortable to wear as it moves around if it's not ultra tight unlike my Instinct 2, where the strap bends down on my wrist holding it better.
The Jet lag function would be great in Descent MK2i. Any news it comes there?
Thanks for the video, it looks good, but I’ll keep my Enduro 2 for fitness and longevity and the AW Ultra for a smart watch.
haha I am going to the merchandise shop right away, will finish the video later ;)
Hope your trip is good; any idea if they will put out a 955 LTE?  You would think the apple ultra will push them too.
I travel to countries with a time difference of 6+ hours almost quarterly and as I've gotten older, jetlag really bogs me down.  I'm curious to know how well this jetlag advisor works and if Garmin will implement it for the Epix or Fenix via an update.  Update:  Just watched your entire video and SO happy to hear it may make it to the Epix!
its the material that last forever! i have a Marc commander gen 1 . and it works well.
Of course it comes out exactly 8 days after I receive my Epix in the mail. I was tired of waiting for the new MARQ and figured it wasn't coming anytime soon.
I was wondering when they'd finally release Gen 2. It was crazy they were still selling Gen1 at those prices with no touchscreen. Yes these are expensive, they're for a niche audience.
Why doesn’t Garmin store your info (hrv in this case) in the cloud so when you switch watches that data transfers to the new watch? I thought they had something like this set up years ago for tracking steps for when you switch into James Bond (marq watch) attire? 😎
i'll take 1 of each edition....and a sport jacket as well!!
Are the spring bars removable on these? Garmin switched to fixed spring bars on Epix and Fenix 7. Hoping they kept removable bars on the Marq series, especially since these are more likely to be worn with premium dress bands.
I am a sailor and the sailing app on the captain version seems great. Can I get the same sailing app on the EPIX series? I can’t find any info about that.
Hi thanks for the video. On the golf features seems like this watch has exactly the same features as the golfer version. For the other versions are you effectively paying for the way it looks? As in all Marq 2 gen watches are exactly the same in terms of features/apps on the watch? Thanks
Seems nice, but I just bought the standard Quatix 7 (no AMOLED) - because - I mount my watch on my kayak (hard to see the info on the watch while flailing around with my arms). Problem with AMOLED is that you can’t turn of the brightness dimming down. No biggie when the watch sits on your arm, but if it’s mounted to a bike or a kayak etc. it’s more or less useless and unreadable during workout since it’s “sleeping”. Was a bit worried that the fancy AMOLED screens would make Garmin trash the older MIP type screen and went for the best MIP watch I could afford. AMOLED looks amazing though, when the screen is on.
I own the Epix Gen 2 but love the look of the Marq Gen 2. That said I can’t justify spending 2k on an upgraded, smaller watch just for looks. Now, if the Marq was the size of the Fenix7X I’d have to reconsider.
great video
Looks amazing, but I've had nothing but problems with the heart sensors
Dons sports jacket for this review 😂👌👍
Hi DC rainmaker I was just wondering what is your every day go to Garman watch?
Thanks!
I have the v1. The best watch i ever had. Never regretted it. Won’t plunge again for v2 and skip 1 or 2 versions but if you can afford it, don’t hesitate a second!
Just a few weeks after the Marq1 they launched the Fenix 6 with a better display. Let's see if something similar happens again with the Marq2.
Edit: This time it's the other way round, I just saw in the specs that the Marq2 has a lower display resolution than the Epix2!
By now I feel they should've made a fully wireless charging system like apple and samsung watches. The metal contacts are the weakest points to these garmin watches. Also this one in particular is a little too small lol.
I’m pretty sure my 945 charges in about an hour too, but it has nowhere near the capacity as the watches you mentioned that take 2.5 hours to charge
ray, first of, thanks for the tweet reply over the overview request 😂 secondly, id reckon you had missed out one feature of the watch, more on the software side, the stock tracker? i wonder - how does that works?
In your test of the Epix the battery lasted about 6 days with always on display, has that changed after six months or are you using it differently now?
Great review! Can “always on”, be set to automatically be enabled for workouts?
Does the Garmin MARQ Athlete (Gen 2) also has the small Flashlight as the Garmin Fenix 7? What about the Solar Option? :)
Thank you
I like the charging port
I bought the D2 Mach1 all though I'm not a pilot. Bought because of the look (version with titanium bracelet) 1658 $ and as far as I can see it's all most similar to Marq. It's cheaper if you buy it with a leather bracelet.
A Marq with titanium bracelet (extra) is most double up to the D2 M1 
I can recommend the D2 M1 I use it only as a smartwatch and the health section/fitness / bicycle works just fine.
If Garmin offered me strait up MSRP for Epix to trade it in I might go for this.
Can you use the rubber band from marq in a epic, like the curved end
"So just look at the bottom of your screen. You'll know it but I won't know it." LOL.
Like the sale pitch LOL
😂. the suit thing is funny 😆.
Whacked the button! This is really cool, but way to expensive. I find the Epix 2 to expensive as well since I got my Fenix 5 quite cheap
Yay another damn charger
Sure rock away and get three, send one over to me too 👍👍👍
I would love a magnetic charger for the Fenix. These mechanical cables just suck. Over time they get more loose and you have to put the tweezers on them to bend the holding mechanism into place again. Just so 90s. Reminds me of times when you had to use folded paper to keep your cellphone battery in place 🙄
Just as an FYI, @dc rainmaker, if you're reading, the music overlay at the beginning was *way* too intrusive, I ended up just skipping through till it ended.
Store your size comparison Oreo's inside the MARQ's box!
Good day i need some help! Please can you show me how to navigte directly to a waypoint without using auto routing. Use to be easy but i cant get it working on my Fenix 7x solar. Always want to Auto route. I want to use it while hiking or walking. please please
Hate the thinner strap of the EPIX and Marq.  They should have the wider strap like on the Fenix X
hello, I would like to know if the Tacx NEO 2T is compatible with the sram eagle 12v 10-50 cassette
Great!
Is there flashlight integration like fenix 7x?
When will Garmin 840 be released?
Hi, thanks for responding - i would very much like to hear what you got for me regarding Marq vs D2 M1 but your mail is not valid.
I’m not in the market for one, but I’m a watch guy.  Grade 5 titanium makes a huuuge difference in durability, better hardness than steel.  Most watches are grade 2 which is softer than steel and gets scratched to hell.
I Just sold my epix2 for the ultra. I really liked the watch but it is just to big. I wish garmin would bring some sort of 42mm epix/marq. I know the ultra is big aswell but i dont know why but it does not look as big as the epix.
Looks like no flash light like the Phoenix. Seems dumb, but since I got that feature I use it every single day...
They got me with the Epix. I got swayed away by the AW Ultra. Now Garmin means business and my bank account is in panic
3 to 5 days in "always on" mode? and the Garmin was the one who made a fun about Apple Watch Ultra battery? :-D
Like the Epix2 47mm is too small for me.

Needs to be 51mm like my Tactix.
marq 2 vs Enduro 2 which is better ?
This watch is soooo great 👍
The specs are just breathtaking but the reason I bought my fenix 7 saphire solar was the battery life. I need those 25 days of run time because I don't want to charge my watch every week.
Why the screen size smaller than the Epix 2with that price difference ?
Nothing beats the Forerunner 945
Fenix 3 here, since 2015, you sure I won’t pass it to my next generation 😅😅?
I think it ist not so dark the screen like the other one Sports Watch from Garmin. OLED ?
Are the GARMIN MK2i and the MARQ Gen. 2 comparable? I know that the MK2i is also a dive computer, but I was wondering whether they are equal regarding Multisport functions? Thanks in advance!
Please tell me which model(es) in the range give the largest stopwatch, and time + length displays to be seen through swimming goggles. Thank you!
I am one of those that pays thousands for a watch. But I have actually never bought a running watch and the price seems too steep for me. With that said, the most expensive one actually does look good from the photo shown.
My only problem with Garmin’s is their interface feels like I am using a Texas Instruments Calculator.
Should have deployant clasp and ceramic case at that price point.  I feel like this thing is worth $1000 the moment you take it out of the packaging, and probably $500 next year.
can you review Amazfit T-Rex 2 please 🙂
Good tool
Lol. How many friggin’ watch models is Garmin pumpin’ out on a daily basis?
Around 2018 I owned the MARQ Commander, I loved it looked amazing but wouldn’t buy another MARQ to pricey for what you can get from the Fenix 7X Sapphire solar which I own and love it more and personally love it more than Apples Ultra
Does it recognise the naps?
That is a very handsome watch but yes, in a few years it will be more or less worthless, and I found the Fenix 7 plenty expensive for my budget so I will have to pass on this beauty.

P.S. I noticed that the "00" on the bezel has some discolouration or missing paint on the top of the second "0", so I would be pretty unhappy if I had just paid a ton of money for that.
Is there any improvement on the Phone APP or is it using the same app?
is the fenix 7 pro sapphire solar better ?
Does it have the same screen size as the EPIX?
Please chill on the BG music :)
Thanks for the video. The music is mixed in at a too high volume for me and it takes away from the quality content.
Marq should have been X size as Fenix 7X. Definitely bigger than Epix maybe with that fancy screen but with bigger battery. And it should include Led light as Enduro 2. 
This version 2 looks like they are trying to steal your money without any real effort to make a great watch 😢
Wait, does that means the new functionality will support naps? I mean even not in a jet lag, many people may have multiple sleeps in one day.
Doing any events in Denver?
When are you going to make a ew video of the new Garmin 2nd Marq Adventure
I want a pasta tshirt 😂
Here's the thing that I noticed from your watches: scuffing. I looked at the Epix and thought that for the duration that you've owned it, it's got an awful lot of scuffing. It even looks like there's some already starting on the Marq - am I correct or is it the lighting and there's some reflection/glare? I look at both and think what's the point of the added dollars needed for the Marq? The only serious advantage is charging speed at the end of it. A question that I have in regards to ALL of the Marq line, especially when comparing it against the Epix: is there anything that's improved upon with the Marq? Is there any software differences even between the different Marqs, or is it primarily aesthetics?
Can the batteries be replaced?
The USB-C is likely to become standard for a simple reason: the EU has decided that all electronic equipment like phones, cameras and eventually laptops sold in the EU needs to be able to be charged with a usb-c cable starting 2024, and smart/sport watches are likely to have to follow suit. And if the EU does that, any company wanting to do business in the EU will likely have to do adapt to it.
Could someone tell me why Garmin has an insane number of watch models, all of them with plenty of open bugs? I really don't understand their marketing strategy, and I also don't understand people that are willing to pay $1900 for a buggy watch with more or less, 2 years of support 😲
Super review, like always. But could you put a compressor/limiter (1176) on your voice-over, please? You are distorting, sadly...
Already got Apple Watch ultra 😅
Come on Garmin, how expensive can magnetic clip on be? It's on every Apple Watch,  Pixel watch and even Suunto 9.

They just don't want to lose their fat margin on that because they dominated the fitness watch market.
One step closer to a tactix amoled
Is there an option to leave the display always on?
Crazy watches costing as much as low end tri bike
So where is the Flash light like on the Phenix 7x really?
Imagine if that yellow color was navy blue or green instead
That box looks like a good place to store all the money you no longer have after buying this watch
Sooo….this or D2 Mach 1 for looks?😅
What processor???
so everyone wished a stylish garmin watch, they take epix add 2 features- changed watch case and added 1500$ on top🎉
If this is not good marketing, I don't know what is it.
I use actual a Garmin Fenix Titan Solar, just as Info that I am not some kind of fan boy
Does it even take usbc
I have a Fenix 6X pro and don’t really get what you get for the extra £££
One pet peeve of the pill shaped pogo pin charging contacts. They corrode over time and gives poor charging contacts. Why can't they adopt wireless charging?
FYI I hear Wahoo will be sending out a cease and desist letter to you for your T-shirt. On an unrelated note where’s your Hub review?
You mentioned in a video years ago. Why pay for fashion when buying technology that is obviously going to change and be updated. It’s not as if this is jewelry that you saving for you kids. If you really like the fashion then get this watch but if you are really more concerned about the tech analysis aspects of a HRM watch then save your money or spend it on third party such as Training Peaks or some of the newer APPs. Actually Strava is really one of the best and not expensive
That protrusion on the bottom doesn’t dig into your skin?
Hi guys does anyone have a blood pressure watch?
that price, but looks good with a dial face.
Great watch , but why on earth one will need a watch to tell him how tired is he after long flight :)
One has to remember, two thousand dollars to some is like two dollars to others.
Miami Vice look ‘suites’ you
Obviously is overpriced. I recently had my Ultra and I'm very happy with it. No Garmin anymore
I like how Garmin can only afford to bundle a USB C cable with a 2000 $ watch.
While i can see myself dropping 2K on a watch, i would not spend that much on a watch that is outdated next year. That's the problem with this line of Garmin devices. Who buys those?
Does anyone else get a darker color, like a tan circle on the skin underneath the watch after wearing a few months???
One of the Garmins is over £2100
I have a brand new gen 1 sitting in my closet…I ended up buying the Captain and it’s been my daily driver since. Hit me up if you want it.
Fitbit Sense 2 review spoiler: heart rate sensor hasn't improved.
I save every one of my “good watch” boxes ... I love them. Stack them up and stare ... but $2000 for a Epix ... that box will not be added to my collection.
$1.9k, nah they can keep it. I'm curious to see if this product line still exists 10 years later.
I'm not buying a $2,000 watch that will be obsolete in two years and stop working after a few more years once the battery and electronics fail. I'll stick with my Omega Speedmaster on my wrist and my smartphone for all the other stuff this watch can do. Thanks for the review.
Is the sensor still plastic?
Who knew an Apple Watch ultra would be good value. All the same materials, less than half the cost.
Well, I paid a grand for the f7x solar so it is really not that much different. Here are plenty of people who would not spend a grand for any watch 🤷‍♂️
still doesn't have body temperature while  competitor got apple fitbit
I don’t really understand the need for my watch to advise me on jet lag, or any other “need” such as how much sleep I have to catch up on. I know when I travel how much the jet lag will be from the number of hours I go each way. Same thing with sleep. If I don’t get enough sleep, I know that. If I want to know how much I got, I can look it up in the app. The problem with sleep, it doesn’t help for your watch to tell you that you have to get so much sleep the next day to make it up. Sleep doesn’t work that way, you can think that I have to sleep nine hours tonight to make up for what I lost last night, and then sleep nine hours, but you can’t, so it’s a waste.

Some smartwatches get OS updates for six years.
I surely can't be the only one who has been pronouncing this Mar-Queue since gen 1 🤦🏼‍♂️
As for longevity, would you pay to “rent” this watch until it becomes obsolete? 1 year? 2? 3? The math is ridiculous. Something between $2-5 per day.
I had the Samsung Galaxy 5 Pro and switched to the MARQ 2 Adv. I simply love the Garmin and am super happy with it. 
However, I don't like the case. It's an unnecessary waste of money which is dumped on the customers.
Hey does it make sense to buy a Fenix 7 over F955. How better is the build quality ?
I really hate that Garmin locks some software features to the hardware. I would love the Aviation features, but don't like the look and size of the dedicated watch. There's no reason why these software features shouldn't be available on all there wearables.
Don’t go halfway brotha. T shirt and a sports / suit jacket is a fashion no no.
Does DC Rainmaker have a carbon budget? Seems like a lot of flying.
literally MILLIONS of miles?
Like all Garmins it will be great for 18-24 months and then detonate
‘New Edge series’…? 🤔
Zero VFM for these watches ... if you have money to waste donate them to DC Rainmaker!!!
Smart watch companies are losing the plot with pricing but have nothing on bike manufacturers.
its too bad the captain watch isn't also an air capable dive watch.
2000 bucks? There's a limit and it was just exceeded
Nah, I’ll stay with my fenix 5x. I’m good
If the Epix or this were 51mm, I would probably get it.  Fenix7 X is it.
Rich people rejoice! I'll sell my kidney today!
Those big sports watches on a MTB turn your wrist into hamburger meat.
Looks like 25% of the cost has gone into packaging...
Jesus christ this is nuts
so expensive, bro had to wear a jacket
I wished Garmin would give a bigger battery to the Epix2 and I was waiting for them to do it.
After the Enduro2 came out with a bigger battery I got high hopes again.now seeing that they dont put a bigger battery in the Marq series I think I can forget about it. Sad
Website doesn't say, but it looks like the bezel is DLC coated. No joy in my book. My Fenix looks like crap after a year and a half. I don't want a $2k watch looking like crap after that amount of time. I really wish they offered this without any coating.
Garmin should really learn from other companies. You launch the more expensive models first. There isn't much incentive for an Epix2 user to upgrade to these, looks notwithstanding
Nice watch but $3250 AUD. Very nice money to spent 😂
Another desire object for rich people (who really want to emphasize how much important sports is to them) to throw money at.
I really like it, but just €1200 too expensive....... Wer kauft eine 2000€ Uhr für 2-4 Jahre Nutzung?
🙃👌👍
If you want one of these watches, wait. The prices with drop a lot in a year.
can it send text messages and make phone calls? no will keep my apple watch ultra thank you.
For people with more money than the average Joe....(basically).
Garmin has got be kidding! This watch series is a joke!! Keep it up Garmin.
Kind of funny how it has Apple Watch Ultra battery life now that they’ve added an AMOLED AOD, while being slower and less responsive at more than double the price
$2k an no 2024 phone integration is weird to me
nice mention of the plastic waste packaging 
This is the sort of stuff that makes me laugh when people balk at the price of an Apple Watch. Clearly they’ve never actually shopped for more than a Walmart Timex before.
I've seen several of these Garmin MarQ reviews and honestly can't understand the over emphasis on the price...in an age where ppl are spending 100k on pickup trucks they never tow,haul or overland with...2k in the world of jewelry is not alot...the average high quality wristwatch is about 3k-5k...average.  So is the point of these garmin MarQ videos to remind ppl who are broke of the price or to highlight the features that make the device a worthwhile tool for the buyer it's marketed for?? Stop harping on the price !
Still no TXT response, no added smart functions, no bigger battery...
Due to US Garmin website only 1.2" LCD (Epix 2 has 1.3"...)
Athlete version could has some nylon band included.
Magnetic plug is too premium... what?

2x higher price...
lol Garmin is selling watches for 1k usd and magnetic charger is "too premium". Like WTF
Trainer? I hardly know her!
Too bad that it hasnt AMOLED and solar that would make the price a little bit more understandable
Did one Garmin engineer wake up one day and say "Let see if their are any idiots that would pay $2,400 for a smart watch"? No offence ;)
Meanwhile all the top Kenyan runners are using a 10 dollar casio
Short story .. protrek/Gshock nothing else
Not keen at all on that music at the start
Smaller screen 🥴
Absolutely a ‘disposable money purchase’. My problem is smartwatch tech obviously advances leaving this eventually, worst case scenario non functional. For the price, I wouldn't pay to play for the short term, but hey,  I’m not the demographic
Not way would I pay that for a smart watch, not a chance.
weed is the best money can buy
the price is ridiculous
A charging cable with fast charge should not and will not be a premium feature. Once Apple kills Garmin market share because let’s face it, Garmin had been slowing down on innovations lately, then they will move it to all products. The Applewatch Ultra is a far better experience but lacks the fitness functions and once that is fixed, Garmin will be in trouble
too expensive for a disposable product
For the price, not worth it.  I get the early adoption price curve thing but you are paying 2x for 1% more….
apple fan are so silence
Apple watch ultra kicks this watch in the strap
12:20 this is just unacceptable HR performance for a $2k watch. Much better to buy a cheaper watch with a strap then
Careful, Wahoo might sue you for that t-shirt design (i'm aware how poor this joke is)
Why is no one comparing the Apple Watch ultra you clowns
I’ll spend thousands of dollars on a good watch, but it won’t be a sports watch.
Actually it doesn't look as good as the new Tactix
😂😂😂 the more expensive the watch gets. The more  Ugly the watch looks.  The cheaper version are more my tast.  
I stay with my Fenix 7.  Epix Gen 2 would be a nice upgrade. This isn't
Nope...too expensive...on for a select few
Epix looks better.
Money is no object for this target market so … irrelevant
This or the Ultra. Hmmm
2200 or 1900 is cheap like peanuts.
Obsolete in 2 years
the price set this watch into 'fools will buy this crap' category... no smartwatch worth this price
Nope!
and the battery life of an Apple watch what a waste of time
I would rather spend this much money on a new set of wheels. This watch is pointless to me.
A Cheap copycat of msgsafe too premium for the epix/fenix and even FR ? Garmin REALLY needs a apple bitch slap wake up call...
This is too much as too much there is a smart watch capable of doing as much as garmin but the price is cheaper if you want only to do a daily exercise
So damn overpriced
Lol, twice as expensive as Apple Watch Ultra. Nah, thank you.
I hate watches which need a smartphone to work properly. Just stupid.....
Battery is the single most important thing in an exercise watch... No thanks.
Garmin are a joke when it comes to charging cables
Next time Garmin must give to youtubers watches in a cheap plastic and a good box to customers in the name of ambient... they don't care it seems...
Why would anyone buy this when the Apple watch is so much better?
Lost me on the environmental comment about the box lol
Honestly i invested $800 on Garmin Fenix 6 Sapphire Titanium and after 6 months i regret. Waste of money buying these useless watches which are not for everyone.
it’s just a fitness watch for couple of grand, duh. why make such a big deal out of it
Apple Watch is way better
View on Amazon in your region: https://amzn.to/3jPhgbm (my affiliate link)

✨ Find/follow/support the channel: https://linktr.ee/mergedroid ✨
4.5 years with Forerunner 35 and I am still happy with this watch. Good for daily running, cycling and swimming
I recently got one of these and I am so happy I did.  I couldn't afford the expensive models.  Then I found this one and it had all the functions I needed and more!  My needs are not that sophisticated.  I just connected my phone, Strava, with my watch!  Thank you so much for this video. I have been using the watch for two weeks and love it!
Just ordered this watch and am eagerly awaiting the delivery. Thanks for getting me a bit acquainted with it beforehand.
Perfect video for me thank you
Thanks for the recommendation got garnin limelight off eBay excellent condition for £38.00.
Great video!!! Garmin venu is on the pricier side... going by this video and the comments, I am pretty compelled to buy this watch
... amazing work.

Ps: I just felt like the background music to be too loud.
Great vid, very informative and insightful. Watched your other on the Forerunner 45 and now undecided which to buy? Which one is best for a marathon?
How does it work for posting your run/ride? I was really hoping for the actual "how it works" rather than "how to sign up to hope it works". Dealing with the same on Fitbit integration. A trial upload would be ideal.
Thanks for this video, can forerunner 35  sync workouts you have uploaded in garmin connect web-account ? I mean , when you go for run for example it will show you that you have a structured workout that you need to execute on that day.. Thanks in advance Merge Droid!
Hey Merge Droid could you do a video on how to clean a Chromebook the proper way?
I'm curious how to adjust the date of Garmin 35?
Could you charge it and track if you're using a power bank? Thinking of buying one to link with my Strava. Stava GPS has been off recently so thought a watch would add to accuracy. No issues re music volume.
Hi, I'm a new to smart watches and I cant afford the higher end models and I am a triathelete and i was wondering if this can be used for saltwater open water swimming, I know that this only has sport modes for running and a few others, but if you can connect it to strava I'm guessing you can use it for swimming, but I'm afraid that the saltwater will damage it, I would love your opinion, love ur content man
How do i stop the timer zeroing after an hours running, my watch goes back to 00.00 after an hour of activity
If you're watching this at the end of April 2021, definitely check the shorts video I made on the Garmin Forerunner 45 that can be purchased at a bargain price right now, even cheaper than the FR35 if you're happy to accept a 'seller refurbished' unit from ebay as I did: https://youtu.be/gQCMxjvR8H8
For future reference, if your audio isn't great maybe you should think of ditching music in the background
Hi does the Garmin 35 record both you're run and HeartRate to the Strava App
Slim chance but any chance you may know. Used to have it so my watch would buzz off every km but show me my pace in miles. Changed it for one session and now I only get Miles/Miles or Km/Km. No hybrid. Do you know how I can have my watch go off every km again but show mile pace?
Can’t replace the battery on this watch. I got three years out of it. But they are asking for 80 dollars for a battery replacement when I called
My Garmin Forerunner 35 not showing call and sms notification, what should I do??? Please help me
Please volume down your music ;-)
If I connect this to a Strava does it show my run on a map?
I like the watch but find that I have a very difficult time getting it to read my heart rate accurately, especially during running
Nice video, except for the annoying background music.  It was kinda painful to sit through trying to block out the bad soundtrack.
сравните с полар 430м?
So do you have to connect it to your phone just to use it?
costco has the best price on these.  just got mine.
I would of enjoyed video more if you didn't have that annoying sound as the background.   Could not finished watching video
Would have watched, but that annoying background music !! I turned off !!
The clicking music was absolutely thumbs down.
july 2022 update: A great choice today in 2022 if you are in the market for a new watch is the Garmin 255 (non touch) at 350€ https://www.garmin.com/it-IT/p/780139#undefined , or garmin 955 (touch) 500+€
Ok...I'm somehow a wee bit late here - but thanks for the shout-out!!!
I love it, as i would only get a watch with full on maps. Programme my trainings, battery life, training load, body battery and the small weight. But yes, Watch faces are unspectacular 😄! Great review ! Cheers
Just got a brand new 945 from Prime Day for $350. I'm deciding between it and the Instinct Solar, which I got for cheap as well, since as someone who doesn't train seriously but still bikes a ton I'm not sure I'll make use of all the 945's features
Another awesome, high quality video Patrick!!
Totally agree on the analysis, I absolutely love my 945.
I'm with you on waking up with sunrise. My solution has been to use an Amazon Alexa routine to control a smart light bulb. You can offset it by an hour either way and have it tell you the weather too. Even stagger a series of routines for different times.
Hey Patrick, thanks for your great review! I've got FR 935, haven't upgraded to 945 as I still love 935 and it's like hard to say goodbye to it :) I noticed and I'm thinking if to go for a brand new Epix 2, but it's hugely expensive, I don't need maps, navigation, I'm runner, need it primarily for running up to marathon and for all day long wearing even for sleep tracking during night. Yes I'm pretty used to have 935 every night during sleep. As you said, so fantastic lightweight sport tester. That's why I don't want to urge to "bulkier" Epix. That leightweight of 935/945 is awesome, tailored for runners :). Now I'm more thinking if new FR955 or 945 plus or something like that might come out soon, I mean e.g. by May/June this year. Then I'd like to wait otherwise dilemma if to go for FR945 or Epix 2, but 945 a bit more likewise :) Best, Peter from Slovakia
Great review Patrick. So much better than the rapid speak mainstream  reviewers.
I have forerunner 945..im very satisfied 👍👍👍
I’ve tested a lot of these watches and I have to agree.  The 945 is still an excellent option.  The new Fenix 7 (or Epix) might be worth considering. And it’ll be very interesting to see what and when Garmin update the 945 to the 955.   
Great video as always!!! 👌
I have a 945 too and I think it's still worth it only if you can have it for a good price.
I was lucky to buy it at 260€ so no regrets 🙂
Let's see what the 955 will be like!
love my 945, and got it at 480 USD! No complaint at all...
Good day! What do you recommend to consider for running classes: garmin 255 or 945lte? Interested in battery performance, better gps signal, more metrics for running.
Would you care sharing or doing a video on the settings you use to get the best battery life?
It certainly gives a lot of information. I swear by Polar Beats. It tells me how many calories of Fat vs Muscle I burn. So I know exactly how to tailor my nutrition.
I have the 935, love it. I have some screen issues, so I need to upgrade. Would go for 945, although I hear rumours that 955 may be out Q2. Decisions, decisions......
Ok. But my question is if the heart rate monitor is not accurate at all (as you said) then all the relevant metrics are also incorrect: HRV, bmp, stamina, heart zones, effort… how can you recommend it and say that the upgrade is worth because of the addition of health metrics if these are off?
Just got mine. Is there a way to see swim, bike, run total distance of the week on the watch face?
With the 945, can you start alternate between music and workouts/maps without having to end the workout?
Ciao Patrick! I can get a brand new 935 for 159€. Should I go for it as a beginner or it is outdated? Thanks!
The gps on the 945 can sometimes be inaccurate pisses me of sometimes 🤣
I'm considering on buying one right now would you still recommend it, or are there other alternatives today?
🙏🙏
I have been using my Fenix 3 every day since 2015 and is still worth it 
Johny Rambo is back
Garmin 255 or 945? Both are 319€ !
I have put over 2000 hours of training on my 945 the battery is  pretty bad now .....
Bought the for runner 945, three years ago, about $800, now battery fully drained in matters of hours, called the service center in Taiwan, they said cannot repair, only replace is possible and the cost is... $140 usd. No others options... So a $800 USD Garmin watch can last only 3 yrs and Garmin is OK with that and is asking you to pay $140 to continue to use that model... Really? Are we talking about responsible and fair business here? Quality product? 

it really the way it should happen? 3 year obsolescence cycle? I was really a big fan of Garmin… but to pay that $ amount to continue to use a 3 yr old watch is outrageous…

#garminforrunner #garminforrunner945 #GARMIN
Hi do you think the 945 is still worth it in 2023 😅?
Great watch but cant measure hrv accurately....actually garmin is struggling with hrv with all there new watches
Does your T-Shirt say “DMT” ..👀
Complete information, short video and links to more information. 10/10
Man, you really helped me out. I watched tons of different videos to really understand the system of navigation in the Garmin Instinct, but your’s was perfect! Short, efficient and straight to the point, with the link of your source ! You really deserve more followers and likes 😉. Thank you !
I didn't know you can change the GPS settings on the fly - very cool & thanks!
Short and helpful video about such important info. Good job
Great video! I checked out the article!
Good video. Straight to the point.
Thanks for the video and I'll check out the article you posted as well, incase it has an answer to my question. We are doing a trek to everest base camp next year and the Garmin Instinct is on my list as a good option. Do you know if Glonass of Galileo or even the US GPS would cover that area?
Hey thanks just getting used on this watch for my runs. I'm using normal gps and it's tracking the route perfectly. Only issue is that before every run I have to calibrate both altimeter and barometer, because If I click run it gets the gps, but not the altimeter and bar..
this is realy great & helpfull
This is great! Now I know about these settings for the activity! I didnt know I had any power to fine tune them. Sound's like ultratrac would be good if your boating or fishing.
Hey Chriss, thks for the useful tutorials, I want to know which brand and models (preferably 1-3 years old ones) of long-lasting solar power watches you recommend for using in the middle of oceans or mountains (in emergency situations) without internet access and only a satellite connection or other map kinds which suits better in ruff conditions? It should work independently of mobile phones. I had Casio H1000 which I wasn't so proud of. Another question is, should we pay for downloading or updating any kind of Garmin maps for smart watches? Thanks in advance, dude!
great video 👍
Go Hunter 🔥🇦🇺 you belong in the top 5
Good video, thanks :)
Thanks for the video. Not so obvious where GPS settings are located. On Instinct 2 they at the same menu.
Can you pull your grid coordinates from this watch?
if you switch offf GPS but then go into open water swim mode does it switch itself on again for that activity?
Thank you
Thanks...!!
I know I'm kind of late to the party, but I wanted to ask is it possible to record the track you were going? I'm planning on using this watch for mountainbiking, and since I know the trail I want to shred, I only want to record where I go. Is this possible with the Instinct?
Hi, this was useful! I have a question, however, on my old Forerunner a run uploaded to Strava via Garmin Connect would show a route map in both apps. Somehow I don't get that with my Instinct Solar. Is this not a feature or am I simply not using the right setting?

Cheers!
Just new to instinct. All I wanna do is learn how to start tracking an activity for distance, time, and maybe pace.  Some of these videos do not reflect what my watch shows when pressing a particular button. I know it has to be a simple setup to start recording a run for example.
Ultratrac might be helpful when you are on a week long (or longer) hike in a place with no electricity. For example in the Himalayan interiors. Obviously not on a trail race where accuracy is most critical.
I still can't find how how to choose GPS options in Garmin Instinct Tactical...?
Thanks for the video, loved it. I am a hiker. What would you recommed for GPS in South East Asia?
my question while run start and finish which bottom used for checking how many kilometer run ??
I hike a lot. I live in lower North America. What would you recommend? Thanks. 🙏
is it possible to display the coordinates of our position with UTM projection? how does it works?
Does it need any internet connection to operate the gps
I noticed you had the 3D distance and 3D speed settings to off. Have you noticed any change in accuracy if you have those settings on or off?
How about if I just turn it off ... Will it still count my steps etc
How do you get grid coordinates
The Forerunner 245 has both Galileo and Glonass options
Is there an  AR mode or Adventure Race mode
does the gps function can display Z (elevation/altitude) on the screen? how?
is the gps setting is 50PQS?
What is the best option for UK??
I'm trying to figure out what setting to use on my watch.  My last 3 runs all the same route have been 280, 241, and today 161.  I've been told that using Glonass makes your watch stupid.  There is ZERO chance I've been getting over 50 feet elevation, but yet my watch says 280, 241, and 161 for 3 consecutive days. Why is it so off?
Hi, please, where can I find such, or similar, watch belt, and how much does it cost?
Will this work outside North America?  Thx.
I’m in the military and need my watch to have a good charge for days. But I want to know how far I’ve gone. I don’t care about the route I’ve taken and don’t care if the distance is exactly what I went. I just want to have a good idea of how far I’ve gone. Is using no gps going to do that for me? Thank you in advance!
How did you get your watch to say "9 d" next to the battery?
My battery is half dead and I just got it a day ago. Is this normal? From set up? Anyways...  I think I'm gonna return it.
Having my email sent to a publicly visible or audio message is a NO-GO. How to change it back? I want silence out of my device.
This watch is 2 years old. Is it still worth it or is there better options within the pricerange now?
Thanks
For military?
How to get a damaged screen protector off?
Please help me. I have problem on connecting my watch to gps, even though I have connected my watch to garmin connect.  Does anyone know how to solve it?
Do we pay for the gps thing?
Can anyone explain why any of these GPS features are useful? Unless you running or just want to see how far you've travelled I can't see the point 

Can you use them on hikes as a guide or are they just tracking devices ?
GALILEO all the go!
So is it traceable?
What about Asia ?
I’m slow ..SHOW ME   Which button you are pressing !!!
This is pretty wrong, the ultratac is not less accurate, it's just updated less often. After a 100K run, Ultratac will STILL say "100K", but the route itself would have been updated less frequently. If there aren't lots and lots of curves, there's virtually no difference.
Way this adventure watches not have emergency call?is ridiculous. The forunner 45 and 245 have this
"I want my watch to read 100 km at the end of 100 km race"
Sheesh, so demanding. 😂
Not like you won't know where the finish line is. The race start finish is the marker but the time in your watch is the metric you want.
Im lost already.
5 buttons too complicated
These watches are way too confusing to use
Dude, you spoke waaayyyy tooo fast. There’s no reason to chew threw the material that quickly, esp for novices. Less caffeine.
Ultratrac is horrible
Hey folks - Thanks for watching! Don't forget the full written review for even more details, including accuracy and tech deep dives: https://dcra.in/InstinctSolar
Man, I don't need this, but I want this. It's neat.
Hats off to you, I was on the garmin site looking at these watches trying to decide what features are what...and you killed it! Hands down best description I’ve found so far, I think garmin owes ya a little kick back, you had better info than the manufacturer itself. Thank you!
I am a convert from Fitbit, just bought the Garmin Solar Instinct. OMG if only I had known how great the Garmin is. Thank you for being interesting and right to the point.
"A manual you're never going to read??" Maybe I'm an odd man out but with something like this that's the FIRST thing I do, then go through it practicing the various functions from the manual.
My first experience with garmin was with the Foretrex 601 which I’ve used for a few years now in the military and when hiking. I loved it so got the original instinct. I almost upgraded to the tactical but held off and I’m glad I did because I was able to get the Solar Tactical. Fantastic. Most people don’t need the tactical so save your money. Most honestly don’t need the solar either but it is a great feature.
This is the first review of yours I've watched and I'm glad I did. Very informative! I really appreciate the detail you put into this!
Fitbit ionic literally just broke tonight. Been riding so much more and this showed up answering everything I wanted to know. Thanks!
These new color options like  (Tidal Blue and Camo patters) are awesome.. But that price of $399 is kind of brutal.  I know it has more features... but 399 is very hard for me to swallow.   I am happy picked  up my regular Instinct a couple months ago for $199.   I am very happy with my Instinct for all of my uses.
I like it. Battery life is my deal breaker when considering smart watches, and having the solar and options to get weeks of use is fantastic. I already see too many people not wearing their watches due to "oh...it ran it out'. I have a tri-sensor, solar Casio that has been my goto for any adventure, as I know I can rely on it...yet I think I need a bigger screen and a few more options which these offer while not bloating it with music players and all those other dumb things. Your review was great
Not sure why anyone would dislike..? A decent review that covered just about everything.
Well done and much appreciated. 🇬🇧👍🇬🇧
Great, concise, informative video. Healthy sense of humor adds to the appeal. Thanks.
Great review, thanks. I got the Instinct (non-solar) literally 2 weeks before the solar version announcement, a bit of a bummer. No trying to decide whether or not to return and upgrade. Add insult to injury, lost my receipt, which means I take a bit of a hit on the return price. Yet I'm still considering it.
Very well done, sir.  To the point, information we want to know without wasting any time.  Earned my subscription and this is the first video of yours I have seen.

Thank you for the content.
Great review. Tossing up between this and the basic Instinct and you’ve sold me on this one!!!
It's a detailed and crisp review. It covered all my queries and perceptions. Thank you for your work.
Lost my fenix 5X by jumping off a cliff yesterday. Never make my mistakes and do not buy cheap wrist bands - it might cost you your watch. Fenix 6 looks great, but I'd hate forking out 700-900 dollars just to find out a few months later that there is fenix 7, which could be a game changer. Considering to get solar instinct as soon as I stop mourning about my loss. Great video btw! Keep up the good work!
A year later, the original Instinct Solar is still relevant and a very good addition to your health “toolbox”.  Not to mention it’s dirt cheap compared to the Instinct 2 solar.
the man just answered all my questions about this watch, Good Job!
Thanks so much. Informative and interesting video. Much appreciate you taking the time. I have the original instinct and love the rugged form factor and the light weight.
What a great video. Answered many questions quickly with chapters in the video. Thank you
Answered my questions regarding the differences between the Fenix line and Instinct line. Thank you.
Finally a watch with the battery life I want. I been using an amazfit bip for what seems like forever.
Great video as usual. All the key info i needed. Thanks from London, England
Dude, every video you do is just so good. Thanks man.
I really wanted one of these until you told me I'd be responsible for my own death. . . . The dying isn't a huge issue but, as a millennial, the responsibility part is a deal-breaker.
My wife bought me the solar surf edition of this watch. I used the snowboard app last week and loved it.
I bought a Instinct Tactical after watching your video and it’s been absolutely amazing!

I recently learned to surf a few months ago and definitely want these added features. Along with no longer needing to charge it.
Thank you for making this video, it was very informative.
As always great review !!! Thanks 🙏
Hi, great review.
I wanted to ask you if the VMAX function for running is present in the solar device.
Thank you! This was a great review. Very helpful. I appreciate your efficiency, shirt and sweet. Searchable / Skipable...
I have been following your DC Rainmaker site for years! great review as always. I have a random question, what is the watch you are wearing on your wrist in this video? do you have a review of that also? it looks good!
Very nice review. There is a bunch of info that I did not know I was looking for.
Kudos 👍 Straight to the point and no bullshit. Good job!
Thanks for going in depth about the updated features, i just couldn't make sense as to why such a big price hike
I picked up the Instinct tactical (non solar) a few weeks. Great watch I wish it had high low tide feature.
Thanks men , it helped me with my doubt's
The red light, cool man. Heh, great and informative. Thank you.
Feel like they are going after some of the Gshock crowd. GShock has much deeper experience with solar and BT - in fact just released the new Glide with a really good watch display that does most of this except obviously not in the Garmin eco-system which so many of us have invested in. Thanks for the quick review! Well done as always.
I just picked up an Instinct for 199 a few weeks ago so I don't feel too bad about the upgrade. If I were to buy one today, I would still pick the Instinct at a discount instead of the Solar at full price. It will be a while before the Solar Instinct is going on sales and I can live with charging it once a week.
Brilliant watch the moss green I reviewed is the best colour in my opinion. Garmin have done a brilliant job with the solar instinct.
Excited for the Forerunner solar!
As usual excellent video from the Best.
Thank you much for your reviews, pulling the trigger and changing from an Apple Watch, something I haven’t been able to find though. Does it sync with Apple health, my coworkers and I like to compete and do workout challenges.
Great review! I'm looking for a watch for road biking, mountain biking and backpacking. Is this what you would recommend for these activities?
A Garmin Fenix Light...?
I like watching your videos for it lets me know quickly how to use the Garmin gadget I just purchased. Thank you for the details you always put into your smartwatch reviews. And yes, your chapter shortcuts were great 👍👍
This is a great video. I've been watching your reviews on many gps watches. Your video editing and commentary I enjoy the most. Well explained. I'm on the market for a gps watch and am most likely going to get this watch. However, the Garmin Foretrex 601 is also on my radar. Though I know it is a very differen watch and market, it would fit my needs, I think. Can you please do a review on the Garmin foretrex 601? That would be awesome! Thanks mate! Keep up the great work :)
Thanks great review, will probably purchase this badboy. A little correction however, there is no such thing as a photovoltaic cell capturing 100% of incoming solar energy and converting that to battery charge, especially not on a consumer gadget.
Wish they would bring that display and solar charging to their bike computers.
Solid review my dude!
Thanks for the review 
How accurate the altimeter is?
That's one good looking watch!
Great video, mate! Quick question: is the Fenix 6S Solar worth the extra 450$ over the Instinct Solar?
Thanks for starting with the price.
Great review. Did the surf program come to the Fenix line in the end, and do you think it will be available on the new Descent Mk2?
Ray, thanks for another great video.  You are the #realdeal
THANK YOU SIR!
Thanks for the video
hey what an amazing and informative review on the new instinct solar! 
please advise with the watch color name thanks.
Original instinct's battery is already good but underwater hr is something I'd like like to have. By the way I didn't expect the cameo to look that cool on the wrist..
Dang! I just bought the older model a couple weeks ago, still a great watch though.
great.  best.  informative. loved it.
I have a G-Shock Mudmaster, I've been waiting for a good Solar/Atomic(GPS) watch to come along for me to play with. Just trying to find one in stock!
Hi, thank for the good review.  I'm passionate road cyclist and have forerunner 735. Every time I go cycling for more then 100mls I start thinking weather I need the cable to recharge the battery.  I noticed your 100 years Le tour poster so I guess you know. Thats all I would consider ulgrade for. The solar is enough to charge it, right?
For a multi-day ultra like Marathon des Sables using GPS the review quotes 30 hours + 8 hours.  During something like MDS you might get 5+ hours of direct sunlight depending on how long you were on the course each day.   Do you think you could do a multi-day ultra without having to charge the watch from a portable charger?
I just ordered this watch I think that will be my replacement for the Samsung Frontier hopefully I'm impressed with it
This seems like a good choice for mountaineering because of the ABC features and long battery life, especially at the price point. Would you recommend it for that, or are there better choices?
Is the tide feature on the Instinct solar Surf edition Something that’s just in the watch Or is it something that can be downloaded to the Fenix 6X pro solar?
My 645 music GPS died at some point. Started using a vivoactive 3 I had brand new in box. Battery life feels pretty meh, can't use my running dynamics stuff anymore. The instinct solar seems like it would be great for hiking, backpacking, and probably daily use for me. Would still missing running dynamics and vo2max. Is there a buzzfeed quiz I can take to find the right garmin for me?
Thank you Sir.
Do these watches have a regular countdown timer though? Which you can set down to seconds accuracy? I like sprinting intervall traning.
My fr645 battery life is terrible as soon as I turn on GPS 😅 patiently waiting for fr655 to come out.
This might be a dumb question but do the watch faces with a light or dark back ground use more power?
Gonna buy soon.
Does this watch have a basemap? I can't figure out if it has a basemap and that's the #1 feature I want in a smartwatch
Does the instinct have downloadable watch faces like other Garmin sport watches (forerunner 45, 230... Which I own) or just the standard face?

Also just gray scale colors or multiple colors as well?
So my Timex Expedition has a countdown timer, a count-up timer, and alarms. Does this 'watch' have those capabilities. Thanks for any assistance. Jim
Hi from Bulgaria. Here everybody likes DC rainmaker. So far, so good. Let's go back to Instinct Solar. I liked it and went straight away to the local Garmin dealer. But i am kind old and became clear that digits/display are designed for younger people. Ok, but we don't give up. Fenix 6pro solar is the next option. I do want a solar device. I have my Fenix3 for 5 years now and It is time to replace. The solar option trills me for sure. So i would like kindly to ask you for a review of Fenix6 pro solar and comparison with Instinct solar. All the best and keep safe
Hi @DC Rainmaker what would be the Best Buy for solar charging if wanted to rely only on solar charging between the instinct solar and the Casio GDB H1000? I heard people saying that the Casio can run only from Solar power? That’s what I want. Thanks for the time
Hi!
Thanks for the video. A question, can coordinates be entered on the watch to find points with the GPS?
Does the instinct tactical have the extended battery as well
Useful as always sir, thank you! Just bought this one on sale as version 2 is now out...let's see how i get on?
Would you take the instinct solar over the fenix 5 plus if used mostly for hiking, running, and everyday wear?
Can the watch function during charging ? I want to wear the watch during charging with a battery bank. Also any idea if I can get the info the solar capturing produces ? Many scenarios I would think increase battery damage creating small battery life reduction.
Is the newer GPS worth the upgrade over the regular Instinct? I just got the regular Instinct on July 7th and wondering if I should return it for the solar. The GPS seems to fluctuate on the regular Instinct at times when I'm not really changing elevations. Having accurate elevation is an important feature to me so want to know if it's that much better. Thanks in advance.
Nice clean video bro. 
Just missed. Does it have Temperature sensor also VO2 max, jump rope counter inbuilt (I downloaded tht it from IQ app to my Fenix3 hr). Also if u could post size comparison pics of instinct vs Fenix3. 
Thanks bro
Great video, thank you. Why not presenting the screen details with a screw driver, that´s cool.
Hi there, love this review.  I have the Solar Surf but the tide times are  one hour different to the actual tide times here on the Isle of Man.  Would you be able to help me to correct this issue please?
I can’t wait for the new Garmin Instinct Solar. As far as I saw from the photos leaked on the Internet, the new Garmin Instinct 2 and 2S, which will be shown at CES 2022, will have a barometer moved to the very edge of the clock and also a new heart rate sensor.
The surf features are cool but dang can we get some support for our river sports? I'd love some flow rate data or flood warnings for major rivers across country for those of us that live in a kayak!
The Camo looks sweet
Can you do comparisons on difference of the HR monitor on the solar and non-solar.
Trying to decide between the forerunner 245 or instinct solar…I like the durability and long batter of instinct but some other features on the 245 also appealing 
Do you know if the instinct will ever get the emergency response application?
Thoughts when comparing the 2?
Thank you for the Video, do you know if it is compatible with Garmin Edge 530 I use when MTB.
Thanks for the detailed in-depth review. How does this Garmin Instinct Solar integrate with Apple Health and Fitness apps please?
Wow, amazing. I wish I had one
I hope that the Fenix 7 (Tactix Delta) has some sort of similar solar capability. Not sure how they are going to have to solar panel capability with the TOPO map screen though. But it would be pretty cool.
You had me at solar....great review, going for the tactical!
Thanks for the review. I assume that with the gps mode you don't need to have a phone paired to it? Ie when out surfing you will be able to see on a map where you paddled / surfed? Thanks
Does the compass still work in battery saver mode?
Hey,

thanks for the great review. Just cant decide on the color. What would you pic for hiking, mountainbiking, jogging but also every day wearing....tactical green or this dark grey?

Maybe there are also people out there, who have one of this colors and can tell which one looks better in real life. Since corona arrived its very hard to decide only online with the pictures :/

Thanks a lot in advance :)
Does Garmin watches work together, for example I want this watch for when I'm at work and out doors but when I have business meetings I want to switch to a more classy garmin while still having my fitness tracking I'm line.
Do you get a surf activity in all the Instinct solar editions or only on the dedicated surf one?
So... with the new HR sensor, would you use it for cycling?  I won't wear chest straps and my original Scosche Rhythm is starting to be really sketchy with it's ratings.  Thought about hunting down the new Rhythm, but I don't have a smartwatch and have some interest... also could use for super long rides and/or cx to ditch the head unit.  FYI, with my main bike, I have a power meter, so I'd need my head unit to see that data, I totally understand that, just looking to ditch the HR strap for this as a main purpose.
I'd be interested to know if a screen protector can be used on the instinct solar. I have one on my Instinct as damaged my previous insticts screen.
Nice review: which would you deject between the Instinct Solar or the Fenix 6. Mainly used for Hiking/backpacking.

I’ve been eyeing the Fenix 6 for a long time, but the Instinct Solar seem awesome.
Another great video thanks. I've recently purchased the watch but am finding battery life worse than my original instinct. I have checked battery capacity (from 3%) & found it to be 242mah. It also takes nearly 4 hours to charge - only taking 0.04 mah max. I was wondering what your experience has been of battery life & how long your watch takes to charge so I can assess whether I have a defective battery. Thanks.
If you put a glass screen protector will it cause problems to the solar panel?
Hi, would you recommend it to me if I want a running, cycling and gym watch if I only need the basic metrics? Very good review 💪
Nice Review
Do any of the Garmin watches work with Strava or Garmin Edge/Garmin Radar?
I wish they would bring those power save mode options as a firmware update at least to the previous Instinct.
does it compatabil with the connect app?
which would you choose?
Apex pro
Grit x
Instinct Solar
Any chance to see advanced sport metrics in this otherwise amazing watch? Even the entry level Forerunner 45 plus has more sport features. It's a shame.
Thank you
I've had a Garmin instinct and was curious about the newer one
bro am concerned about the colour of the watch what i see at 4:19 is the real color or not. Coz the one on website is totally different, it shows light grey to black camo. this one looks light blue to dark blue. Please help. Great video bro. Real Smooth. IS THE COLOUR SAME AS ONE ON WEBSITE?
hi ray
I wanted your opinion: I don't like the Garmin look very much but I have received a lot of interest with the surf app which shows the waves and tide. I like the solar cells on the Instinct. 
Are there any other watches that show these options and have strong batteries? The Fenix 6 is very expensive, the Pro is not so important to me because I have music on my headphones, but the Instinct Solar is an unattractive watch for me.
Btw. i have now Polar Vantage V, ok but no wave, tide and i stuck at some fitnesslevel...
Thanks for Feedback
instinct solar esports would be nice . how is the screen holding up does it scratch or screen protector is a must?
Hey, 
Did the altimeter/elevation get better than on the original version? I read tons of complaints about this issue from the original Instinct owners. Most of them say it is because of the place of the sensor, it is just too close to ur skin. As I the sensor is at the same exact place...So I would be interested if the new version handles the sweaty runs better and gives correct elevation. Thanks!
I would love this watch if it had all the features of the forerunner 945. Common Garmin.  You can dooooo it!!
Can't decide between this and the 6x saphire 🤷 when do you think the Fenix 7 will launch ??
You say it's like the Fenix Lite, but I feel the excellent battery life puts this in a category of its own. For my purposes this makes the Instict more like the Fenix Ultra 😄
Thanks sir.
Thanks!
Hey Ray, did they move the location of the barometer hole to solve the clogging up problem of the original instinct?
many thnaks！
can i set the backlight always on specially during night time?
Thanks for the review! Three questions for you - 1) Does the NON solar watch have more room on the screen since it does not have the solar ring around it?? 2) another review of the solar version said the backlight was “washed out” and not real effective compared to other watches. Again, is that related to the solar screens? Does the NON solar version have a better backlight?? 3) How much connected user interface exists between the Instinct and iPhone?
Do these watches give speed in MPH or Knots??? I never see it in videos.
can it read and display Ant+ power meter for biking?
Forerunner 245 vs instinct solar? What ya'll think? I run and bike mostly and do bikepacking! Thanks!
Ray, thanks for a great review. I actually bought the Solar, but I'm still not ready to get rid of my regular non-solar Instinct. Comparing these two, I've found that the non-solar model has a slightly brighter(or whiter) screen with more contrast. The solar's screen seems to be not as clear and bright as in the old model. Besides, the Solar model is slightly taller the regular version. Two questions for you. 1. Do you know if the photovoltaic layer is placed under the actual screen with ink, or is it placed at top of it? Just curious, as this might have an impact on charging depending on the chosen watch face. 2. Sony GPS chip, covers only GPS, or GLONASS and GALILEO also ? Or these are all different chips? Thanks :0)
Make a review on garmim tactix delta solar with ballistic please!
I got a galaxy watch 3 for Christmas. I really like it. But I mainly use it for working out and hiking. The battery life is completely trash. Even with every feature turned off you barely get 3 days and that's not using it lol. How would this stand up with a watch like that. Does it track heartbeat, steps, sleep cycles,, weather? Can I hook it up to my earbuds? How scratch resistant is the screen? I wear my watch 24/7 and have a rough construction job, I had to get all kinds of protective gear for my galaxy watch. I'm wondering if it would be worth it to just break down and cough up the extra for the Garmin Tactix Delta? I realize sone of my questions are answered in the video, I'm just typing my thoughts lol.
What is the green light that goes on the bottom of the watch.
Does anyone know if the ABC sensors can be the only thing left on as part of battery manager? So full smart watch mode but if I wanted I could just setup a battery mode which is just watch and ABC sensor but everything else turned off?
How is GPS accuracy for open water swimmimg...?
Is this the camo graphite version? It looks kind of dark blue, than graphite that I see on Garmin web site and on line shops. Thnx.
What about course navigation as compared to other Garmin watches?
Hi DC Rainmaker, congratulations for the channel, for cycling, which one do you recommend between this, the FR245, the coros Pace 2 and the vivoactive4?
Its the pity they still haven’t changed where the altimeter is located on the watch. My original one gives very inaccurate readings once my wrist gets sweaty.
Hey,
Informative 👍
So,if i have a full battery,charged from the mains,i think that gives you 9 days use.....so once the solar is charged to capacity,from the sun,where on the watch,or garmin app,does it show the synchronisation of these 2 charging options "mains/sun" and give you a full estimate of the total battery life available?
I understand the power saving modes increase the battery,but I cant really pinpoint this data of having the extended battery life available on the watch....
I hope that makes sense,
Thanks 
James
Do recommend the  Polar V titanium or Garmin Felix 6?
I just wish the colours matched the pictures on the site. My tidal blue is nothing like the images on the Garmin website. Complete different blue.
Would be nice if Garmin would do the tide software to the Fenix 5X Plus as a update. Where I live we have the Atlantic and the Gulf of Mexico would be extremely useful. How about it Garmin if y’all are watching???
So the solar won't keep the watch from dying but just extend the time between charges?
I want tide info, but not enough to change to go for either color on those surf models 😕
I’m soooo confused as what color camo this watch is in your video! It looks blue but what Garmin offers is called a graphite camo and a green version. What camo version is in your video? Thx and great video!
C'mon Ray, you know we always read the manual 😬
Cool review, mate. I was wondering. Is the stealth mode really not just a fancy word for "airplane mode"? And does the other instincts have this feature?
Garmin is finally catching up with coros battery wise.
Hi, is it normal that when backlight is on, there are stripes across the display seen? Is it normal?
Ray, the update to the Fenix 6 solar series will have the Fenix 7 coming out soon - with an AMOLED screen (fingers crossed)
Nice video and good looking Garmin. Question how do you compare the data itself you get from the Garmin 245 compare with this new Garmin Instic Solar ?
Hoi, my vivosmart hr is kapot, the strap gave out and I just got back into sports (running) again. Had some midlife issues and some time I rather forget and gained weight. Lock-downs didnt help either. Started a get of the coach program in November and I am gutted I can't use my wriststrap now. (not a newyears resolution) Plan is that after pools open again here in the NL  I will start weekly swimming with my diveteam again. This involves touching the bottom at 3atm. In due time I hope to loose some of my 100 kilo's as well. Above all I want to get fit again. So I am looking at a new tool. I didnt like my strap for not looking like a watch(it did it's job though) and I don't like some smartwatches for looking like a gimmick and daily charging. But things changed since I last looked at them years again.
Which one would you recommend, the forerunner 245 (745in sale) or this instinct solar. Feature wise (music) I lean towards forerunner. However, I do like gshocks with solar so with it's tougher milspec and 10atm rating I would guess touching the bottom of the pool & daily life is better with the instinct. How is it's sleeptracking?  How do they compare walking and running?
I watched all vids and also your pal Desfits on several watches and decided a sports oriënted watch and turning of the message things from my phone would be better than a smart watch with sport options for me. Don't use this feature on my strap either so I guess it is better have more sport options than pings that distract.
Long story short, I would appreciate advise from some-one who has tried them all.
Hi DC Rainmaker, 
did you have a chance to test it for a longer time?

Im asking as mine was showing really good battery life predictions (150 Days plus) with daily solar charging (and on basic tracking mode with HR and steps), and has recntly dropped to around 20 days for no reason. 

Was wondering if thats normal or a defect?

Thanks alot.
Is it possible to upload music on it and listen trough bluetooth?
Can I pair my Wahoo Tickr 2 HR chest monitor with the Garmin Instinct Solar? Thanks for the video.
I was waiting to hear how I could pop GPS coordinates in and go Geocaching. Drat. I’m wondering if I should ditch my Vivofit 3 and put a dinner plate on my arm. I love most of the cool tech, but still not sure about the size. Sigh . . .
I bought a Fenix 1 with a similar display and basic Open Street Maps capabilities, navigation, barometer, thermometer, accelerometer, compass... almost 7 years ago for 280€!
Another excellent review as always.  I know this vid is a year old but would you consider this watch an upgrade or a downgrade to the Fenix 3 HR? Yes, I'm still wearing one from 2016. Thanks.
LOL pointing with that screwdriver .... best way to scratch the screen
Was hoping for a bit more storage space, the 16MB (8MB in reality) is causing some issue with mine currently.
So I have the vivoactive 3 at the min and finding the battery is letting me down as I mtb and it only lasts 4 hrs or so
Would this watch be a better replacement for apps and of course the battery will last way longer during tracking with GPS
I enjoy watching your videos. 
I am thinking about buying an instinct solar or forerunner 245 music.  
I just started running 5k and 10k about 2 month ago and doing around 57 minutes for 10k. 
I found that the GPS watch can hep me improve my running. 
Please suggest. I like longer battery on the instinct solar and better design and lighter on 245 music. 
Please let me know your thoughts.
is garmin instinct is compatible with bike speed and cadance sensors ?
Man, I like the upgrades but I was hoping they would replace the Instinct and keep the price the same. Or keep the old model at $199 and the new one at $299. Maybe I’ll wait for a sale around Black Friday.
every time i watch your videos, im baffled on why you dont have more subscribers.
my instinct tactical heart rate sensor never worked properly, in activity mode my heart has peaked above 140 the watch still in warm up mode
I realize they are very different devices , but does anyone have some thoughts on Garmin watches vs Apple watches , in daily use ? Currently I use my Apple Watch for day to day , and use a Casio Pathfinder for camping/hikes/beach/outdoors. In my mind a Garmin (now with solar) would be a good combination of both 🤔
Hey!  at night , can u see the display?
Does the night vision on the the Tactical watch require night vision goggles, or at night can it be viewed with the naked eye?
Is there somewhere I can get a pdf of the owners manual that shows me step by step how to work the functions? Thank you
Does this watch have a built in thermometer?
How do I add Tennis that is not on activities list?
3:00 "captures 100% of the sun's energy" 

Haha all energy of the sun?!

I know what you mean that it uses all sunlight energy absorbed it's funny to point out how you said it
What is the difference between the red light and green on wrist ?
Can any of the menu scrolling/setting changing be managed through the app?
I'm very new to this...will these download and display popular mountain bike trails? and if so, is it pretty accurate?
With that circle on it or reminds me of g shock too.
Nice video
Roughly what size are the time reading digits please?
might want to use a plastic stylus to point things on the watch... removes the possibilty of maring the item.  (even a wooden toothpic)
Can you use garmin pay using garmin instict solar?
Good review, and thank you for making my decision easier.. I would 100% pull the trigger on this because of the features, especially the power saving customization, but paying that kind of money for a basic 128 x 128 LCD display, is just not worth it.. it's literally a display technology from the 1970s..  No idea why they did this..
Hmmm.. are the new charging pins stainless steel? The gold pins on my Fenix 5 Sapphire are nearly worn out. Those news pins look a lot more durable.
Picked up a new original Instinct last week..still won’t go for the solar version for extra 100 dollars!! 🥴
Hey i have a question. I cant get a GPS signal no mater how hard i try. Its saying '' GPS SIGNAL IS STRONGER OUTSIDE AWAY FROM TALL BUILDINGS AND TREES'' so i was trying outside in  good spots, in diffrent areas, but the same message. Been using my garmin solar camo wacth for 2months now. Without GPS i cant use escpetitions, and other fuctions that needs GPS.
ANY help guys?
Pretty amazing video as usual! Just speak a little bit slower so I can get the most of it! Anyway keep moving buddy 👏👏👏
I am looking at both GBD-H1000 and garmin instinct solar. Difficult decision on this purchase. Anyway I am leaning toward Gshock due to its appearance.
I'm still not sure if the solar is worth the price, but it seems like they could have made an upgraded non-solar Instinct "Expedition" model, to have the power saver features, and add in the Expedition GPS with less of a price jump than the solar.
What watch are you wearing
whats the difference of instinct solar camo and instinct solar tactical?
Which model camo is this watch? It looks like a blue ish water camo but can’t find on garmins web site?
Hi. Barometer is OK?
How will you rate this with bravo 2 pilot?
is there a thermometer on this watch?
Wish it had MP3  playback and the tide & moon function.
Hey, can the band be replaced?
I called Garmin and they said MGRS is on all models. The Tactical one displays Zulu time at the bottom which other models do not. What does your experience show? I just snagged the tactical for $375
I find it interesting that in your video review and written review of the Instinct solar, that you twice fail to mention how much slower the watch charges than it's predecessor.  Any reason for omitting this obvious fact?
keep it up.
I have first Instinct, what changes in solar apart from solar power??
Will you recommend this only for running ? It is certainly not the cheapest options but I like the idea of long battery with the help of solar tech.
Hello nice video
Since I'm so early, just wondering if you think it is at all worth upgrading from the basic Garmin Instinct?
Does this watch ⌚ on only display military time
Does this model come with running dynamic ?
Hi, does it charge in sunlight even when the watch is switched off?
My experience with the HRM is very different. Mine is not accurate at all. @DCrainMaker, what is the reason?
Hi! I got mine today. I have only one question: I fully charged the watch, but it shows 12 days of battery life. In the video, your watch shows the same 12d, why? Why not 24d as advertised?
Can it be used as a heartrate monitor for Zwift? Cheers from Switzerland
Garmin fenix 6 with G shock design, that's what I want
I'm windsurfing practican ¿Which Garmin Instinct support windsurfing?
Will the watch solar charge with its power off?  How long to charge to half on a sunny day?
Been using this for a month now and been out mountain biking but its heart beat reading when engaged with activity seems way off a lot of times. I’ve tried tightening the strap around the wrist as well as wiping off the sensors but I have this problem every time I ride. Does anyone experience similar issues?
Will it automatically rely on solar if I put it on Battery saver mode?
my Tic Watch Pro 3 GPS overheated after a light 10 minute surface swim in a pool.  Now I'm torn between getting VivoActive 4, Instinct Solar, or Galaxy 4 Watch.  I want to get something that will LAST.  I had the Tic Watch for 9 months and now it's toast. :(
Does anyone find the calories read as burned during exercise incorrect or off?

I’ve had the garmin instinct for 2 days now, and the calories seem to be reading pretty low (compared to my previous Apple Watch).

I’m an experienced weight lifter / bodybuilder, 180lbs around 15% BF. When I trained today, for 90 minutes, my calories burned read 490, when on Apple Watch, would read around 750-800 (which seems more accurate. HR was pretty consistent between 100-150. 

I’ve only used the strength training tracker so far.
I never entered any reps or anything done, as I track that with my log book.
I just want something really to track my heart rate, calories burned, and time.

Maybe the Apple Watch could be wrong, but when I inputted these stats into a calorie burned calculation, given my stats, it said my estimated calories burned were pretty bang on to the Apple Watch.

Anyways, I’ll leave this at that.
Just wondering if anyone is experiencing anything similar, or if there’s certain settings I can adjust to get a more accurate reading (p.s I already have my stats entered into garmin connect)

Thanks
...and number 4 is Jumpmaster, where you can jump out of perfectly good airplanes, if you choose to do that :)
Best three channel talking about smartwatch in youtube is ( DC rainmaker , DesFit and oldbasgold) the bad thing about garmin sleeping tracking why they still old school ?
EXCELLENT review, but good golly my friend you talk FAST!!!!
Did they fix the barometer/altimeter?
Fenix 6 lite. great deal. I had big gps troubles with my instinct, now I have Fenix 6 and new chipset much much better, and new optical sensor great too. Good update, good device, but why they do not put Garmin pay, it’s so handy, greed Garmin. 

Dc, big thank you for your work 🙏🏻👌🏻🤟🏻
Have you noticed that when it's measuring things  it vibrates very slightly on wrist
Outstanding video.  I'm in Canada and here the Solar is literally double the price ($299 Vs $599).  It's killing me because I reallyw ant the solar due to the extra battery life (and I've got a few solar G-shocks) but double...hard to swallow.
Will it pair with the HRM-Tri?
Hey man I'm confused between instinct solar and gshock g squad.
Does the solar have vo2 max? Thanks
I wish Garmin had just put the solar battery extension function in there for what it is - a means of getting more action between charges - and left it at that. I don't care what my solar exposure rate is, but that stupid graph takes up a pretty big chunk of real estate on the face. . . All I want to know is whether I'm going to need to charge my watch before I finish my next swim. But, that's Garmin's issue and not a reflection on this review. The review is great.
where is the barometer port located on this version?
If you leave it in the sun. How long will it take to charge? Or is it like fenix that dosent charge in the sun?
I wonder how long it might take to charge the watch from zero to 100% using solar panel only?
Is it ok to wash it thoroughy twice a day with soap due to this corona virus situation? Will the waterproofing take a hit?
I wish there was a smart watch with just the features of calling and texting and no other widgets or a way to completely disable them to where you don't have to scroll through the others
I just got a instinct solar on sale for $300. I love it. It's awesome. However! Doesn't anyone else think that $400 for a digital watch or worse $900 for a Fenix Pro is fucking crazy??!!! Seriously, I am not a poor person. I make a good living. The fact that the Fenix Pro Solar costs almost as much a  set of carbon wheels for my bike is INSANE!!!!
Garmins are worth the money.......all the Sensor readings are Live and continuous......no stupid Delay, like with some of the G-shocks.
You forgot the biggest reason for the tactical vs the regular. You can manually inter GPS coordinates and nav to them.
How does thr GPS work so I do not get lost in the woods?
I like how they call it "100% photovoltaic" when no PV materials currently on the market get more than about 30% efficiency. I guess it's just for relative comparison with the other section that's shaded by the display.
So wait until black Friday
Can someone tell me if this has gps time synching ability?  I'm very unfamiliar with Garmin technology. Thanks.
Garmin need to chill on their paper manuals
Do you need a monthly subscription for this watch ?
Does it have connectIQ support?
Wow my brain got a software upgrade,  I can now understand what he says to open the video
with the PULSE OX BLOOD OXYGEN SATURATION MONITOR, its good to update. original one doesn't have it
Does this have running dynamics?
Red light cool
This watch is now competing with the G-Shocks Survival watches (Old and new Rangeman). Beeing able to run of solar alone is a huge bonus in the survival category! Beeing a good GPS and Sports tracker us a good bonus compared to the G-Shock's! Oh, and the price is much lower (At the cost of sapphire and build-quality of the new Rangeman)
No music? Hmmm, I think I will just hang on to my Fenix 3.
These are 169.99 at Bass Pro Shop till Christmas, right now.
What's the difference between this and the regular Garmin instinct???
So... when are we going to get solar in the Edge lineup of bike computers?? Seriously, my 520 has garbage battery life and it's facing the sun all day when riding!
Does this tell you how many miles you have done ?
Does it give real time speed?
Can you compare this watch to amazfit t rex?
I am a Garmin fan, but at $449, that Made in Taiwan tag just kills everything.
Please review Samsung galaxy watch 3
Durability?
Your mention of the Instinct as a "Fenix lite" makes me want to hear more from your perspective: ignoring music, maps and Garmin Pay for a second, what are the main differences that matter for someone aspiring to become more fit? What kind of training analysis or motivational features are missing on the Instinct that you get in the full-blown Fenix? And does that matter more or less depending on what kind of sports you do (e.g. running, hiking, cycling, etc)? That would be a really interesting video. Keep it up!
The tactical is by far the best but has 1 stupid, yes stupid feature which is the jump master mode. Very few military personnel are jump qualified and even fewer are HALO qualified. With that said to meet mass military adoption across all branches, I believe (speaking with 22 years of military experience and 5 military job quals) the tide/wind data would best replace jump Master. Understanding the idea behind the watch tide/wind data could critical for casualty evacuation or escaping/evading the enemy....just thoughts
Does this model got music playback options?  Its a deal breaker for me...
Garmin instinct solar over  rangeman casio g shock ?
does this have solar charger..?  why do they call it "Solar"..?  What about the Garmin Explorer External Solar charger..?   there isn't enough square inches of solar panel to keep it charged.. I can see how it might just increase range.
Garmin wastes the upper part of the solar screen (where "Garmin" is printed on) for what reason? Just to move it to the circle in the upper right of the display to enlarge its display-wasting edging? I don´t get it... 
They should take a Forerunner 945 with its smart and thin plastic bezel, and make the huge black design ring under the glass as a solar screen. THAT would be an much more effective solar area. Complete it with a same energy saving display technology from the Instinct and there you go!
Does anyone know if its water prof
They don't have the blue camo on their website and i want that.,....Sad
The main thing to know is that the GPS won't work in a wooded or even semi-wooded area. So if you live or plan on hiking around trees. Forget about using the GPS function. My watch won't even update the time after daylight savings because I have a few redwood trees close by. So much for being an extreme outdoor adventure watch. Unless you plan on hiking in the desert or on a treeless mountain top, forget about trying to use the GPS.
What happens when the battery doesn't hold anymore?
Is this compatible with iphone
Thank you for the review! I just bought it ☺️ how can I see battery in %? I just see days
Are you selling the shark t-shirt? Please take my money !
Furtunately this video is working...It is the only thing of garmin that its opererating rigth now.
Can't believe they want to charge $50 extra for one extra SOFTWARE feature on the Surf models
Still no VO2max?? 🤔🙄
Can i record swimming with this one?
I have the Instinct Solar... the battery life is the huge selling point for me. Used the Fenix 6 sapphire and 6x solar... if you don't need maps, music etc. Get the instinct solar if you value battery life... the best out there with all the feature offered. The 6x Solar Fenix battery life with solar was little bit of a let down for me. It's the ultimate fitness tracker (battery life on the Instinct Solar) and for someone setting training goals. The Fenix 6 does give a lot more info on the home screen... definitely worth considering as well.
Does the Garmin Golf app work on this watch?
One thing I need to know is me, watching you unbox it?.... Strange
Strange how G shock has 100% full coverage solar and did so for years and years.  I think there is a reason for the situation?
So the Camo version is just a different color but for 50$ more? What?
I wish they'd make a gps watch that wasn't so "smart" based
So, how is it that this thing has SUP and ROW setting, but can't even display KNOTS, which is the standard for speed over water? Great watch, but that's a serious mistake from Garmin. Being able to display knots is a VERY basic ability and it cripples this watch for SUP, Sailing, rowing and so on.
AI want a smartwatch where i can use it as phone. Dont want to pay additional fees to carriers. Put the simcard that works independently from your phone
Telling that the tactical ain’t the camo version
Vo2 max?
wowow you mean no other watch before this one could give you pulse ox???
I've had the older Instinct Tactical for a bit over six months. The Tactical wasn't worth the extra $100 because I don't have a Starlight scope and if I were doing a HALO jump I'd probably not use my watch to calculate it.
The old one gives about 12 hours usage while navigating or recording in GPS mode. It can recharge at night. It can recharge in about an hour using battery pack or wall plug. 
Can new one recharge by plug in or only solar? If only solar it's too limited to be called 'tactical.'
Mine had been a great recorder of bicycle rides. It uploads to Strava and other apps and you can save the battery on your phone.
The old one isn't big on the wrist which is nice if you want to wear it a lot to take advantage of fitness tracking. I feel guilty when changing to mechanical watch for a while. These don't have the feel of a 'real' watch but the useability is great.
P.S. Read the damn manual. Get the most out of your purchase.
The red  done....
The only manual you will ever read is a g-shock manual because if u don’t u will be lost in the watch
Just wish they would make the bloody screens bigger,  becoming a old git eyes are getting worse for the detail. Seems the watches are getting bigger and the data you actually need gets smaller.
I really wished i like this.. however the only reason i will never get that is the ugly screen! Cmon this is the gbd-h1000 main competitor in terms of solar, price and ruggedness ! Its way, WAY uglier , the resolution and the shape of the screen its like i got it from a snacks pack! Cant even believe they didnt think a little bit more of how it looks! Insanely ungly to me :( Unfortunate cause for the price is really good ,but at this point for the same money id get the g shock for sure! I wanted it for the garmin ecosystem and a menu im used to, however this thing is going to be on my wrist and i have to watch it all day long, no way on earth im using this.
I don’t think there is enough sun in a full year in Wisconsin to charge this thing
Still waiting for Heart-Rate powered...
If buyers knew the actual cost to manufacture these watches I wonder if the % of profit would turn customers off to buying one.
looks like a Gshock.
Anyone use this watch for paragliding or any type of aviation.
Mine is in the post! Wife got me a good discount. Yeah muthafuckers!!!!
They're promoting these as "US Army standard ruggedness". I'm in the kitchen quite a lot so will random bacon fat and frying oil spills make these toast?
garmin need to up the design for this price point, kinda look like generic gshock
I just bought the original instinct for $200 🤦🏻‍♂️
I prefer G-SHOCK ,toughness , solar,
, etc,
Why suunto no have solar for their basic watch. so sad suunto!!
Trying to watch have to keep pausing it going to fast
CASIO R.I.P......
pointing with that file (aka rat tail) is making me cringe every time.  :-)  Love the watch though.
Capturing 100% of the sun's energy?!? Absolute bargain for a small portable dyson sphere
really wish these reviewers would stop saying 100% of the suns energy!
Sounds like Bill Gates 🤓
Wow now if you can just find a job that pays
I wish these demos would go back to real basics... KISS - Keep It Simple Stupid - how does one navigate round all the multiple options easily.. you go through the power saver options as if we know exactly what all the navigation buttons on the side do.. You click those buttons as fast as you speak.. really frustrating!
I wander why did they made this great feature watch look cheap and plastic like those childrens 1eur watches in chinese store. I wanted to buy it but 350eur for peace of plastic...
For something that was built in China and sold for at least 300 over what it cost to build I say a BIG NO THANK YOU.
Only wacth Poeple and human Many Big
Guy slow down please. 🙄
Shouldn't you do a real life testing on the actual solar benefits that'll bring to the overall battery life and not just rely on what was reported by Garmin itself? Sorry, IMH poor review. It's more like a feature explanation.
Great review, but I would not buy this watch AGAIN.  My wife gave me a Garmin Instinct Solar for Christmas ($434.99 incl. shipping and handling).  Today I noticed that crystal was cracked.   Due to the global COVID pandemic, the most extreme thing I had done while wearing this watch is take back to back naps.  When I called Garmin asking how could I get my watch repaired, I was told that they don’t repair their watches BUT that I was eligible for a replacement watch...........if I sent them $140.  Wait?  What?  Yeah😳.  I’m actually kinda’ happy this happened.  I was just about to drop $1K on an inReach Mini and a Montana 700 Series.  Now that I see that Garmin doesn’t stand behind their products and that they are not as rugged as they profess....I’m done with Garmin.
This watch is crap, don't buy it. These positive reviews are paid for by Garmin.
slow down no buddy can fallow you
It would be nice if we could actually see which buttons you are pushing. You are impossible to follow in this vid.  Frustration at max levels.
Garmin bracelets suck they tear so easily.  Must be the resin they use. 🙁
And please - SLOW DOWN! I had to turn playback speed down to 85% just to follow your speaking and it's STILL too fast, it just gets too garbled if I slow it more.
Are you looking for the best Garmin watches for men & women of 2021? These are some of the best Garmin watches for men & women on Amazon we found so far:

✅1. Garmin fenix 6 Pro, Premium Multisport GPS Watch, Features Mapping, Music, Grade-Adjusted Pace Guidance and Pulse Ox Sensors
https://amzn.to/3rZHoRJ​
✅2. Garmin fenix 6S Pro
https://amzn.to/2OxKuPl​
✅3. Garmin Instinct Solar Tactical, Solar-Powered Rugged Outdoor Smartwatch with Tactical Features
https://amzn.to/2M5o72q​
✅4. Garmin Forerunner 745, GPS Running Watch, Detailed Training Stats and On-Device Workouts, Essential Smartwatch Functions
https://amzn.to/3teAhXf​
✅5. Garmin Vivoactive 4, GPS Smartwatch
https://amzn.to/2Q5fsie
Perfect for what we need
I just bought the Garmin 745 and I am greatly enjoying it so far!
Garmin smart watches are great
i am looking all over for info on datum provided in garmin watches. cant seem to find it.
I'm in love with the Garmin instinct Solar Tactical. It looks absolutely gorgeous and has all the fitness/ outdoor features that I need.
Which one did you recomend  for weight training and mountain bike???
I just won the garmin instinct solar in sunburst yellow in a goddamn Facebook competition. I can't believe my luck.
I think it's beneficial to have a data comparison one, say, a current workout session to a best workout as recorded in the watch; seeing 2 color-coded graphs. Data is great but a comparison can lead to further improvement, if you're improving at all.
So the Garmin Tactic Delta Solar Ballistic cannot make it to the list? Damn i was gonna buy that one
thinking of getting myself one !
Do any of them track rollerblading or skating?
The solar waffle should be in the strap, that way we would get a month battery duration. You're welcome
WhyV02 max only work on when you’re running and not other activities
Bother put a 9mm bullet from 300 yards and the fenix still got a gps signal 😅
Is Garmin a Taiwan based company or just start in Taiwan and have since move out?
I want
My garmin forunner 245 got water damage just from being in the shower
how is the best
I just want a watch with a reliable compass & time keeper.
👍😎🍺🍩🔧
No sound
No touch screen
Please let people know they cannot replace the battery on any Garmin watches meaning after 3 or 4 years watch goes to garbage sham on Garmin
Having owned Garmin sports watch I would say it's lousy. Way too expensive for its crappy features. And the watch would reset by itself time to time so the needle would hand up at the slighttest flick, which defeats its purpose as a watch. All I could say is, I won't buy a Garmin anymore
